BEARCROFT 1460 I make no apology for troubling your lordships with a few observations upon this point; it is a case of ve great imjortance; and when I say that, I am sure I shall be understood, that I do not stand up to speak of the importance of it, because I am likely to give any extraordinary assistance, but, inasmuch as it is of so great and general importance, I, therefore, feel it m: duty to attempt to do it in the best way can
BEARCROFT 1462 —I will not attempt to break into, or controvert, the rule that has been already laid down by the Court, as I understand it—I will not repeat a syllable that has been said b the learned gentleman before me—but I thin: I can add another observation upon this letter, which would entitle it to be read. 
BEARCROFT 1463 When I say I will not controvert the rule Jaid down, as I understand it, I wish to state, in order that I may be corrected if I misunderstand it, how I suppose it to have been laid down,—as I understand it, it was decided, by the authority of the Court, that a mere narration of simple facts that have passed is not admissible evidence; I think that cannot well be disputed ; my humble judgment certainly goes with that decision, if it is carried no farther; but when a question of evidence, and of great extent and iniportance, is befure the Court, I have been always taught, that the way to decide upon the competency and admissibility of that evidence is to consider,— What is the question trying 
BEARCROFT 1465 Now I understand, or I am grossly mistaken in the whole of this proceeding, that the object of it is to show, that the prisoner at the aris guilty of high treason, of the species chargedin this indictment, by the means, and by overt acts, which amount to a conspiracy, with many others, to carry that treasonable intent into execution; that is the nature of the charge
BEARCROFT 1467 Now, my lords, I take it to be a settled rule in the trial of an indictment for a conspiracy of every kind, that when once you have established, that the prisoner at the bar has conspired together with others, not then upon trial, in the indictment—nay I go farther, not charged in the indictment : When I sa: established, Ido not mean established decidedly, that they are guilty of the conspiracy, but that there is evidence admissible, and to be laid before the jury, upon which they are to exercise their judgment—then I have a right to give in evidence the acts of others, so connected. 
BEARCROFT 1468 My lord, it cannot he disputed, that some evidence to prove the conspiracy is in the possession of the Court; nay, it is in the possession of the jury; for it cannot be in possession of the Court, without being in possession of the jury; they have heard it, of ; course, as it has been admitted
BEARCROFT 1470 been rightty stated by Mr. Solicitor General. 
BEARCROFT 1471 What is the object of the conspiracy 
BEARCROFT 1473 I beg leave to advert to another part of this letter, that, I say, goes pointedly to show, that the design was for compassing the mischievous, the traitorous,—I had very nearly said the personal destruction of the king. What I advert to in this letter, I will read te our lordships in the very words : “ The 
BEARCROFT 1474 ‘ing went yesterday to meet Ais parliament. Your lordships will mark the expression; it is very decent, but— 
BEARCROFT 1483 I have received this interruption with the greatest patience, because it is made by a counsel for a man now trying for his life; if it had been made in any other place, and ina civil cause, I could not have orborne instantly to express my astonishment at the gross irregularity of the interruption ; because I conceive it is not only the privilege, but it is absolutely the duty of a counsel, when he is arguing upon the admissibility of evidence, to state that evidence to the Court. If, it can, by any other means, be argued, my learned friend will be so good as tell me how that is to be performed, for I really cane not conceive. 
BEARCROFT 1486 I am certainly aware, that it may be done in that shape of opening the nature of the evidence; but with great submission to the Court, I conceive that was precisely what I was going to do. I do conceive, with great deference, that it would be extremely improper in me to be reading the evidence, from the beginning to the end, under colour that that should be necessary to argue as to the admissibility of it. I de adanit, that it is sufficient; nay, that more ought not to be done than to state the nature of it; but I conceive that the nature of that part of it, which I point out as one of the main grounds of the admissibility of this letter, are certain particular expressions made use of in it. What strikes me, at this moment, is [contained in two lines and a half : “ Nay, I am told a woman, moved and seduced by the instigation of the devil, and traitorously intending, &c. did, in St. James’s- park, take off her patten, and threw it, with all her force, whereby the glass of the state coach was broken, and his majesty put in fear. God save the king; for, if, &c. as Gerrald says,— Be acl y do submit to the Court, that this is important evidence to the very point of the indictment; namely, for the pu se of showing a mischievous intention to the king. Because this is a letter from one of the conspirators to another of the conspirators, exulting in the transaction, enjoying it, and stating it as good news, for his purpose, to his brother conspirator. That is the light, with great submission, in which it strikes me. I conceive that that is an additional ground upon which this letter is admissible. 
