BULLER 1012 Here is an alderman who remembers the trial of Bet Canning ; he informs me that, to his knowledge, the jury went home during that trial. 
BULLER 1015 I understand the shetiffs have beds prepared here for allthe jury. 
BULLER 1403 I am strongly inclined to think, that this letter is evidence, and ought to be received. There are two things to be considered in an indictment of this sort. First, Whether any conspiracy exists; next, What share the prisoner took in that coniracy. 
BULLER 1404 It appears to me, that when we are consjyse dering the first question, any thing that passed from any person who is proved to be a party in the conspiracy ought to be received as evidence, and it is received for the purpose of showing what was the extent and nature of the conspiracy. Now if the case stood merely upon this ground, that Thelwall, one of the’ conspirators, had said their object was so and so, that, I take it, would be evidence; it bas been admitted, I conceive, in a variety of cases that have happened upon similar questions with the present. In Dammaree and Purchase’s cases evidence was received of what some of the parties had done when the prisoner was not there. The attorney general says, I calIthis witness, not to speak in particular to the prisoner, but to shew the intention of the mob. On the trial of lord Southampton something said by lord Essex, previous to the prisoner’s being, there, was admitted as evidence. In the cases that have happened, in our own time, in Lord George Gordon’s case, evidence of what different persons of the mob had said, though he was not there, was admitted. In all the cases at St. Margaret’shill, the same thing was admitted, and with a view of showing what was the design then on foot, which is a very distinct question from the question of whether the prisoner was or not concerned to the extent that others might have been. As Mr. Garrow states this letter, it seems to me to have that effect, for it shews what some of the parties at least intended by meetings they had held, and what they proposed to effect. In that light, therefore, it seems tome to be evidence. But before it can affect the prisoner materially, it is necessary to make out Snother point, namely, that he consented to the extent that the others did; but still, while we are upon the question as to the design, it appears to me that any thing that haa eet said, still more any thing that has been written by the conspirators, ought to be received in evidence, to prove what that design was. 
BULLER 1515 The case to which I alluded just now was, that of William lord Russell, where my lord Howard, in his examination, goes very much at large into evidence of what passed between him and lord Shaftesbury; and in parts of that evidence he goes on to say that he supposed these thin: were told to lord Russell; that lord Russell properly objects to: he says it ishearsay, and does not affect him, but it is part of the evidence which is given, and you find much relied upon by the chief justicet in summing up to the jury, with a view to that question which I just now stated, as the first which presses in point of order, and which question, in my opinion, is always to be distinct from the second question ; namely, whether it does or does not immediately affect the prisoner. The evidence given there by lord Howard is, that in a conversation with lord Shaftesbury, he asked him what forces he had, to which lord Shaftesbury answered, that he had enough, that ten thousand brisk boys were gendy to follow him whenever he held up his er. hen this is summed 'up, the chief justice states it to the jury, repeating these words, as evidence of a consult, but that it does not affect lord Russell. 
BULLER 1516 Then how stands the case here? The first question to be made out is, that there was some conspiracy to affect the life of the king; —To make out that question you must go into evidence of what was done by other persons. When established, I agree that that would not affect the prisoner, but it is necessary first to show that here was such a conspiracy on foot, and then you go on to the second question, to see whether there is or is not evidence to prove that this prisoner was acting a part in that conspiracy. Now it seems to me that the question will stand a little clearer, if we suppose that a conspiracy of the nature contended for on the part of the prosecution had gone on without the intervention of such a convention, as has been here proved, by persons who were in the habit of committing their resolutions to writing, if such a combination had existed, how in the nature of things could it be made out, but by the declarations and the conversations of those who were parties toit? And it seems to me that the way in which my brother Adair considered this question, is a material one; suppose an equivocal expression were used, should not I prove by conversation of persons there how they understood it; it is evidence that they meant that their plan should go to such an extent, then it becomes a secondary question, whether the prisoner so understood it or not ; it is an expression equivocal, and if it is proved on the part of the prosecution that some meant to go to that extent, it is open to the prisoner to say it was not so meant by me, nor did I so understand it. But the question is now not upon the effect of the evidence, but whether it ought or not to be received; and inasmuch as it goes to the existence ofa conSpiracy, itseems to me that it must be recited. What effect it will have must be considered hereafter. 
BULLER 6207 Undoubtedly the practice has increased much within my memory : what Mr. Erskine alludes-to now has been universally the practice; that when you are upon a cross-cxamination, you are permitted to lead a witness more than you can on an ori- ! 
BULLER 6208 inal examination ; but he so good as recolect the mode in which the lord chief justice put it yesterday, and Ido notthink in Guildhall, orany where else, you cver departed from that. You may Icad a witness upon a cross-examination to bring him directly to the point as to the answer; but not to go the length as was attempted yesterday, of putting the very words into a witness’s mouth, which he was to echo back again. 
BULLER 7271 Did the witness say he mentioned it to this friend for the purpose of its being communicated to a public officer? 
BULLER 7302 Cases have been alluded to respecting offencescommittedagainst the re venue laws, and therefore I paid the utmest attention to what has fallen upon this subject from my, lord chief justice, my lordchief baron, and my brother Hotham, because they are better acquainted with those cases than I am. The principle, as taken from them, I should be dencseh to pay the utmost deference to, and I think I do not differ from my lord chief jastice in the principle he has laid down: perhaps in the application of it I shal) differ only a little, and I fancy my brother Hotham and I differ in the application of the law, rather than in the application of the facts. 
BULLER 7377 Mr. Erskine, you cannot pursue that question farther. 
BULLER 11231 What prosecution do you allude to you? 
