ERSKINE 722 Bee so good as to read the quotation from Thompson’s poem on Liberty. 
ERSKINE 723 “ Unblest by virtue, government a league: Becomes, a circling junto of the great, To rob by law; religion mild, a yoke 
ERSKINE 724 To tame the stooping soul, 2 trick of state To mask their rapine, and to share the prey, Without it, what are senates, but a face 
ERSKINE 725 Of consultation deep and reason free, ‘ While the determin'd voice and heart are sold What boasted freedom, but 2 sounding name? And what election, but a market vile, 
ERSKINE 726 Of slaves self-berter’d ? 
ERSKINE 732  I admit it. 
ERSKINE 733 “ Mr. N. Hibbert, Feelin of the Society of the Friends of Universal Peace, and of the Rights of Man, at Stockport. 
ERSKINE 734 “ Sir; I am directed by the London Corresponding Society, united with a view of obaiid a parliamentary reform, to inform you, that they read with great satisfaction, in the papers of last week, your interesting account of the institution and proceedings of the Society of the Friends of Universal Peace and of the Rights of Man, and sejze with joy the first opportunity of commencing an acquaintance and correspondence with meu who act on a similar plan to themselves; they therefore have ordered me to transmit to sir, as president, a few copies of their to the nation on that subject, and to invite you to similar communications on your part, always remembering that union, good order, and numbers, are absolutely necessary to our success, We began to associate last Janusry, and since the late proclumation we have increased rapidly
ERSKINE 736 London, 11th September, 1792. 
ERSKINE 763 The jury should know this is a paper that has been already read. 
ERSKINE 872 Did you see them given 
ERSKINE 988 My lord, I should wish to put a questiou—the answer to which, indeed, already foresee—whether my friends across the table think there will be any probability of their being able to finish their evidence within a time that human nature is equal to pay attention to it; because if not, to be sure your lordships will be under the necessity of taking some step to hear this extraordinary cause in a manner consistently with that justice which is due both to the Crown and to the prisoner. I confess, that for one, I do not feel myself atall fatigued, and am extremely ready to go on, and to remain here any length of time which my duty to the prisoner can possibly require ; but if the evidence on the part of the crowa should go on to such an extent as that it would be impossible either fur your lordships or the jury to give any farther attention (and your a and thejury are but men), then the prisoner’s defence could not possibly be heasd; therefore, I should humbly suggest, if your lordships find it isin your power to put this into any traip,—I would ask my learned friends, whether they can finish their evidence tonight? 
ERSKINE 992 It is very material for us that the jury should hear. 
ERSKINE 1002 It is impossible to figure to one’s self a more delicate situation than that which we hold who stand ascounsel for a person who is upon trial for his life; at the same time, my lord, I can have no difficuky in saying thatshould think the prisoner at the bar perfectly secure in taking the solemn word of honour of each gentleman upvun the jury that he would not be approached (as no gentleman upon the jury would be approached) by any man living upon the subject of the cause: and Zam sure that, if I could not depend upon the word of honour of each gentleman of that jury, in fulfilment of that pledge, I should address them to very litte purpose, even upon their oath. I shall recommend, as to the prisoner at the bar, to give that indulgence to the gentlemen, under the very peculiar eircumstances of the case. 
ERSKINE 1004 I certainly advise him to ask it. Iask at upon the difference of being m this house or going to their homes. gentlemen seem to have paid very great attention to this cause hitherto; it is my earaest wish they may do so throughout, to the evidence on the part of the crowa as well as to theevidence on the part of the defendant ; andI am willing that they shall be as free as air, with the single restriction, that they will ot suffer themselves to be approached in the way of influence ; and the gentlemen will not thinkit much that that should be required, considering the very peculiar nature of this case. 
ERSKINE 1007 I wish to be understood that it was a matter of great indifference to me, and it only arose from a desire I had in my mind that the jury should not be deprived of going home to their own families for want of a consent from me, and I am persuaded I hazard nothing by that consent. 
ERSKINE 1018 Be it so, in the most em phatical way, for the purposes of Jaw and justice. 
ERSKINE 1019 My lord, all this immense body of papers has been seized, and been a long time in the hands of the officers of the crown—We applied to see them, but were refused—we applied to the privy council, and were refused—we were referred to your lordship, because they knew your lordship could not grant such arequest—we are therefore here with all these papers tumbled upon our heads, without the least opportunity of examining them, and yet from this mass of papers, which the attorney general took nine hours to read, the act of compassing the king's death is to be collected. From a view of the whole, I trust your lordships will be disposed to indulge me—indeed I shall expect, in justice to the prisoner, that I may have an opportunity, betore I address the jury upon this mass of evidence, to know what is in it, because your lordships must very well know that, though taking all the pains I can to look at it as itisread, yet itis quite impossible for the human mind to take it in, or form any idea of it, without an hour- or two at least (for Ishould not require more) to take it into consideration. When I look across the table, and see I am addressing myself te hon. gentlemen of the profession, who know the situation I am in, I canmot doubt their consent—and the reason I mention it now is, that there may not be any inconvenience to your lordship in praying this upon the sudden. 
ERSKINE 1022 I am not complaining of the privy council, we were referred by the privy council to the crown, and by the crown to your lordship. 
GIBBS 1026 We asked to look at that book, that we might see what papers were necessary for our defence. 
GIBBS 1050 You found this yourself, I suppose
GIBBS 1052 Then you should not have answered in that manner
GIBBS 1054 What do you know about the paper
ERSKINE 1125 I confess I am not veryanxious to shut out any evidence. I very probably do not understand it; but I do not see how it bears upon the case. As the case stands at present, the evidence is this. This society was formed, the object of its formation has been read in evidence, subject to such construction as the gentlemen of the jury upon their oaths shall be disposed to put upon it, in connexion with all the rest of the evidence. They appoint two delegates to attend this Edinburgh Convention, and your lordships will have the goodness also to recollect, that the holding of that convention is not an act which is charged at all upon this record ; but the conspiracy, as it is called, was to assem-. ble another convention at a very distant period after this first convention bad been ds persed. 
ERSKINE 1126 We had it in evidence recently, we have all heard within these five minutes that those two gentlemen who were appointed as delegates to represent the Corresponding Society, of which the gentleman at the bar was secretary, had instructions given them, which instructions directed these delegates to pursue closcly those rulcs and institutions of the society which have been read in evidence. Therefore, my lord, if they have—I do not know that they have, nor do I care whether they have or no—if it should turn out in the proceedings that are now proposed to be read, that this convention at Edinburgh did, in the moments of heat and irritation, which I take for granted always must belong to persons in the situation in which they were placed— if they had written, or said, or done any ba nay, I will go farther, if Mr. Margarot has done any ing, or said any thing, not within the scope of the instructions given to him, which instructions have been read in evidence, and which instructions refer also to the institution of the society, which has been also read in evidence, I-humbly contend that cannot affect the prisoner in any myself and, give me leave for a moment to call this to the serious consideration of the Court. 
ERSKINE 1127 The defendant is charged with no act of the Edinburgh Convention ; no, he is charged with that of which if I could believe him one moment in my mind to be guilty, although I must stand here to do my duty towards him, yet I should do it in another fashion than I mean to perform it—he is charged with com-. passing and imagining the death of our sovereign lord the king, whose life is dear, my lord, toall the kingdom ; in order to prove that he had from the beginning that wicked intention, for that wicked intention is the foundation of the whole procecding, and no act can be given in evidence before your lordships, nor will I sit here silent to hear any act given in evidence that does not go to show the prisoner at the bar had that wicked compassing. Ladmit that, if they can show that any instructions were given to these two men, which instructions carry upon the face of them (and whether thev carry it upon the face of them or no is subject to the consideration that they are to receive from the jury) evidence of that wicked intention, or that that intention: can be proved by any thing that is like inference or construction (for this is not an extension of the statute at all) this is matter of evidence. 
ERSKINE 1128 My friend Mr. Gibbs and myself have sat silent; your lurdships, I am sure, must agree that we have given no sort of trouble to the Court, nor do I mean in the progress of the cause to give trouble to the Court; when, therefore, they read any thing that comes from Mr. Hardy, or any thing that does not come from him, though he is the mere instrument, as the secretary of a body of men, yetif he mixes in it, we have never objected to itas evidence ; but when they propose to read, I 
ERSKINE 1129 do not know what it is—probably I am wast-
ERSKINE 1130 ing my own breath and your lordship’s time in opposing that which will be of no consequence, pethaps, when it comes to be read ; but when I stand here defending this man, who holds his life under the law, and I am not defending his life only, but my uwn life, and the life of every man in the country, I must take care that the rules of evidence are observed—I wish to know the nature and the ality of the paper. If it be something Mr. Hardy is cognizant of, if they can show that the proceedings of the convention were known to and approved of by Mr. Hardy, my objection falls to the ground, and I have nothing to say about them. 
ERSKINE 1134 I am perfectly satisfied ; I only wanted to know what we were about. 
ERSKINE 1174 Is this evidence? 
ERSKINE 1176 Then I object to it, what Mr. Thelwall said is no evidence against Mr. Hardy. 
ERSKINE 1178 There is no manner of doubt that upon an indictment for a conspiracy, be the conspiracy to do one act, or another act, or be the quality of the act done, when it is done, what it may, that as far as you can connect persons acting together towards one purpuse, which purpose constitutes the crime, you may undoubtedly involve them together by evidence, but that is not the question here. I wish to be understood that I have no anxiety li the subject, because it isa printed paper which has been in all our hands, and was yesterday stated at great length by Mr. Attorney General in the course of his opening ; but it is only that the proceedings may not be embarrassed in the course of them that makes me interpose. 
ERSKINE 1179 Mr. Thelwall gives a paper to this witness to be printed, if my friend Mr. Garrow can show that Mr. Hardy afterwards paid for the printing of this paper, then this will be so much time lost; but if that is not before your Lordships, as it is not, there may be a ditference in the quality of the act, by the procceding farther to the printing a paper; for instance, suppose this paper itself contained something criminal, could your lordships fasten that crime upon the prisoner, by Mr. Thelwall’s having directed this gentleman to print it? the knowing that a paper is printing, and giving an authority to print it is different; supposing that paper contained treason in itiat hich I know it does not, that might be saa prea of treason, but could not be treason itself, therefore I humbly apprehend that in a criminal case of this enormous size your lordsbips will not stretch the rules of evidence, so as to allow it to be asked of this witness, whether Mr. Thelwall did direct him (the prisoner, Mr. Hardy, not being present) to print that paper, the nature of which I do not know. 
ERSKINE 1182 Is your lordship to take that from Mr. Garrow’s assertion? 
GIBBS 1184 I understand the point that Mr. Garrow contends is this, that though Mr. Hardy only is now upon trial, yet because one overt act laid in the indictment is, that papers were published, that for the purpose of proving that overt act, part of a paper deivered by Mr. Thelwall to be printed is to be given in evidence against Mr. Hardy. 
ERSKINE 1187 Our objection is merely with regard to this coming trom Mr. Thelwall ; your lordship will dispose of it as you please, I have no anxiety about it. 
GIBBS 1192 Does your lordship think that all the directions which Mr. Thelwall gave, are to be received inevidence? 
ERSKINE 1194 Your lordship means that it will have an application toevery member of the Corresponding Society. 
ERSKINE 1387 Mr. Thelwall appears to have been an agent for the publication of this address, which turns out to be an act of the society, and to have ended in a dinner at which these toasts were drank. But the difficulty with me is this: if they could show that songs were actually sung at this meeting, which songs were indecent, or that they, in your lordship’s mind, or the opinion of the Jury, bear at all upon this case, I should not object in the smallest degree to these songs being read; but I very much doubt whether any account by Mr. Thelwall of these songs having been sung, can be evidence against Mr. Ifardy. What an agent docs is one thing, what an agent says has been done is quite another thing; nor will the construction which Mr. Thelwall may put upon these be at all evidence against Mr. Hardy. 
ERSKINE 1388 Mr. Thelwall inay, notwithstanding he acts for these societics, have some view of his own ; not that I impute any such to him, because E am of counsel for him in the indictment that will be afterwards tried against him; but A, B, C, D, E, F,—all the letters of the alphabet may meet for objects which they may all league in and be connected together, and if criminal, all criminal. But a declaration of one man, supposing he drives atany particularobject, and he makes use of any particularlanguage to express his mind with regard to that object, cannot, I humbly submit, be evidence against the prisoner. As far forth mostundoubtedly as all the acts of the society are piven in evidence, as far forth as any thing bas been said in the presence of Mr. Hardy at meetings he attended, all these are eve dence against him, and so is every thing that Mr. Thelwall does in this partial agency ; for Mr. Garrow has not established hin ‘to be the universal agent of Mr. Hardy, but only has proved bim to be the agent for procuring the printing of a particular paper. 
GIBBS 1389 We can have no anxiety to fesist the evidence that is now offered, except that if it be received we know not where it imay end. The question which your lordships and the jury are now to try, is, whether Mr. Hardy has compassed the king’s death, and whether he has done any of the acts charged in the indictment as overt acts in the prosecution of that design. The evidence offered now fo your lordships to prove this, is, that Mr. Thelwall, who is charged in the indictment to have ee in the same conSpiracies that are alleged against Mr. Hardy, that Mr. Thelwall, not by any communication with Mr. Hardy, not in consequence of any peso scheme between him and Mr. 
GIBBS 1390 Hardy, did write this letter. Now with respect to any thing that passed at the meeting at which Mr. Hardy was, with t to any thing that was done by any other person directed and instructed by Mr. Hardy to do that thing, we admit that those things which passed at the society in Mr. Har . 'presence, and that any thing which twas done by another person, by the direction of Mr. Hardy, gould be evidenee against Hardy ; but to what point in the indictment the letter written by Mr. Thelwall, of which it is not proved that Mr. Hardy ever had any knowledge, is directed, I confess I cannot see. The three questions are, first, Whether Mr. Hardy compassed the king's death; second, Whether he committed any of the acts which are stated as overt acts; and, third, Whether he committed them in the prosecution of a design upon the king’s life. I take it, that a letter written by Thelwall, without the knowledge of Hardy, cannot be evidence of the act of Hardy’s mind, namely, compassing the king’s death ; therefore, it cannot be evidence tpon the first ground. 
GIBBS 1391 With respect to the existence of the acts that are laid as overt acts, they must be proved Specifically upon al] the prisoners in the indictment. The present trial is only of Mr. Hardy. The present question is, Whether he Gid any of these acts. Then the declaration of another man, whether by word of mouth or by letter, cannot prove the fact upon Mr. Hardy. 
GIBBS 1392 Then, suppose the acts proved, the third thing to be proved is, that the act was done in the prosecution of a design upon the king’s life; then, nothing that is said, written, or done by a third person, without the authority of Mr. Hardy, ean Rue that Mr. Hardy meant to produce the effect which it is imputed to him he meant to produce; namely, the destruction of the king. Therefore I submit, that this letter written by Mr. Thelwall does not appear to conduce to the proof of either of the three things imputed by this indictment; wamely, That he compassed the king’s death; that he in point of fact committed any of the acts stated in the indictment as overt acts of that design; os supposing that he committed them, that any of ihese acts were direeted to the design of compassing the king’s death. I submit, that upon neither of these grounds is this letter admissible against Mr. Hardy, and therefore ought not to be received in evidence. I wish to repeat, that it is not from any anxiety we feel with respect to this letter, but because we wish that a rule should not be established in a case upon perhaps indifferent points, as a precedent for others that may ope rate materially in the cause. ‘ 
ERSKINE 1412 They will be discussed when they arise. 
ERSKINE 1417 I apprehend that this letter, upon no principle, can be evidence; T shalf not draw the Court at all into the construction of the statute of king Edward the third, at this moment; the prisoner is upon his deliverance on the general issue, and I shall address your lordships and the jury upon that subject in due season: at present, I shall content myself with saying what has been said twice to-day already ; first in the morning by myself, after wards by my friend who sits by me, that this isan indictment for compassing and imagining the death of the king; and that there are overt-acts stated in the indictment, which are laid as acts done in pursuance of, and. in ac complishment of—or to use the language of the indictment, to fulfil the traitorous intention, which is the charge upon the record. 
ERSKINE 1418 It is impossible for my friends to go farther than to contend, by these acts, that they involve in themselves, as they are pleased to say, a forcible subversion of the government of the country, which would involve in it as a consequence, the death of the king, and that therefore it is an overt-act, or, in other words, relevant evidence to prove the criminal intention, which is the subject matter of this indictment. But your lordships permit, and ought to permit, t allow, any other acts of the prisoner, to be given in evidence, which decypher his mind to the jury; any expressions of his own, any thing that he has said, any thing that he has done, which points directly and relevantly to the purpose of this indictment; for I hope your lordships will never cease to recollect, that the crime charged upon the record, is the compassing the death of the king, and that the overt-act is the means the defendant is charged to have made use of in the accomplishment of that criminal apd detestable purpose. 
ERSKINE 1419 Then let. us see the danger of allowing the letter of a man, who is not charged even upon this record, as a conspirator with the prisoner at the bar: Mr. Martin has had a bill found against him, which of course we know nothing of—we only read of itin the neswspapers; but we, who are of counsel for the prisoner, are counsel for hit as having engaged in a conspiracy with the other prisoners now in Newate, and with other persons to the jurors unknown, for the purpose of sceorapliehing this detestable apie of destreying the king; and your lordships will see what a pretty piece of work you are cutting out for yourselves, if this evidence be admitted. Any thing that Mr. Martin says, or writes, can, upon no principle of common sense (to leave law out of the question), be considered as evidence to criminate any body, except as he is a member of the Corresponding Society, which, by-the-by, he is not yet proved to be. 
ERSKINE 1421 We will take Mr. Martin, for argument sake, to be a member of the Corresponding Society. I shall be glad to Know upon what principle can your lordships fo out of the overt-acts charged in the indictment; upon what poeple upon earth can you go beyund evidence of the direct conspiracy charged upon the defendant, but upon this wholesome ground, which we do not stand here to contradict, namely, that any thing which can decypher the mind of the prisoner to the jury, from whence they can collect that he intended the death of the king, may be evidence against him; then, according to that, any members of the Corresponding Society whom you could have brought together when Mr. Hardy was not speal ing of the king, when he was not reviling the king, or attempting any thing that could lead to his Majesty’s death, unless, according to the argument which we heard at large, yesterday, of certain consequences which were to arise from the representation of the people in par liament—it would render that innocent man at the bar, as I have aright to style him until the jury have pronounced a contrary verdict — it would make him answerable for every wicked thing that any man has said, or that any man has written. I collect from what fell from Mr. Garrow, but still more from the opening of this letter, yesterday, by the attorney general, that Mr. 
ERSKINE 1422 artin writes, in some flippant manner, of a pattcn being thrown at his majesty, upon his return from his erlement (o bick, by-the-by, is the style and pees of the law, for it is his parliament); but, if Mr. Martin chooses to express himself in a contemptuous manner either of the king or of his parliament, and if that is to be evidence to decypher the mind of any body, it is evidence to decypher the mind of Mr. Martin, not of Mr. Hardy. Do not common sense, common honour, and common justice, revolt alike at it? We have got names we cannot help, because in a court of justice we sometimes talk of a plot and sometimes of a conspiracy ; but I say, that all that has been laid before your lordships to-day and yesterday, amounts no matter to what, I am not to pronounce the law, it is the Court—but amounts to an assembly of a great numt-er of peuple in ditferent parts of this island, all pursuing one purpose. Your lordships will recollect, that the conspiracy, if it is to be called a conspiracy, does not exist in the members of the Corresponding Sacicty alone, for the ac-, complishment of this purpose; they corresponded with Sheffield—they corresponded with Manchester, with Leeds, with Norwich, with Dumfermline, with Edinburgh, and with a great number of other places. According to the doctrine now contended for, the declaration of every man, not the declaration of what his olject was—it has not been stated that any of them said, “ the object of all our meetings is to destroy the king ; but jf any absurd, intemperate man, drunk or sober, chooses to utter an express contemptuous of the king, that is to be evidence to decy pher Mr. Hardy’s mind. I do not stand up to approve of any man’s uttering any contemptuous expression of the sort; but if Mr. Martin has uttered such an expression, when Mr. Martin is upon his trial, the good sense of the jury will consider how far such an expression as that will weigh as against hin; but I enter my solemn protest ya this being given as evidence to affect Mr. Hardy. My lords, toust needs do so, when I heard an expression imputed yesterday in the opening, by the attorney general, in this cause, to another person
ERSKINE 1424 But supposing any men connected in a scheme tor the reform of parliament; I wil] suppose it in the case of honourable men, wha meet in a society (of which I am a member) for the purpose of a reform of parliament, for any thing I know, if the papers of that society were laid before your lordships, there might be found expressions in them which y lordships might think intemperate, expressions which you might think illegal—expressions which vou might think ought not to be used ; and as far as your lordships could impute any of these expressions to me, if they could be tairly imputed, that would be one thing: but, good God! what man could ever enter himself into any society for any one obj whatever, if the language and if the writings of every individual composing that society. could be given in evidence against him. 
ERSKINE 1425 I woul only ask where this is ta stop; because I have a right to say, if Mr. Martin is to be considered to be the decypherer of the mind of Mr. Hardy, then J must enter into a defence of the mind of Mr. Martin: I must call witnesses to Mr. Martin’s character; for, if there is any objection to that,Ihave taken the pains in preparing for this momentous trial, to look from the earliest period of our history down to the present hour, through all the questions that have been put to witnesses with regard to the declaration of their sentiroents of persons accused, for the purpose of their exculpation. Can you go the length of making a declaration of Mr. Martin’s contemptuous behaviour towards the king evidence not only to show that he thought lightly ofthe king, but that every other man did, who met for anuther purpose, and for another end? 
ERSKINE 1426 Is it meant to be gravely said here, that if persons meet together for the accomplishment of a purpose, which purpose appears by the evidence to be what I have no right to say, because until your lordships and the jury decide, whether it is to obtain a fair representation of the people in parliament by constitutional means, or whether it is any thing else, what quality the law shall annex to it, is matterIwill not break in upon, for various Teasons, at this moment. As the prisoner stands accused of compassing the death of the king, every thing he has done himself, every thing done in his presence, every thing said in his presence, to which he may be supposed to assent, by continuing to meet the same ns again, is to be received in evidence. 
ERSKINE 1427 ow, for instance, if Mr. Martin had said this in the presence of Mr. Hardy, and afterwards he is found living with Mr. Hardy, it might be said so far Hardy might be considered as approving the conduct of Mr. Martin. I understand this to be a letter found; I do not know where, for that, is not even stated. 
ERSKINE 1431 Suppose, instead of being a letter to Margarot, it had been a letter to Hardy himself, it would not be evidence; I cannot help a man’s writing a letter to me— the post may bring it, and it may be found in my custody; if any man were to write a letter to me by the post, containing matters I highly disapproved, your lordships could not criminate me because this letter was found in my custody. 
ERSKINE 1432 I wish this to be considercd, in order for our lordships to see the extent to which this ineiness isopened. Weare now faradvanced ip the second day, upon an indictment for compassing the death of the king; and, ifyour lordships look through the State Trials, from the beginning of our history to the present time, you will find what has been remarked by the Court, that it has never been necessary to have recourse to the expedients employcd last night, by the indulgence of the, Court, in a case of high treason. In the case of Elizabeth Canning, I understand it was done. But, if this ficld of evidence is to be gone into, I protest I cannot see when this willend, because I am sure that your lord, wae will do impartial justice, and, therefore, if this letter of Mr. Martin’s is to be read, Mr. Martin, of course, must be allowed to explain it. If the crown can give the letter in evidence, because Mr. Martin happened to be a member of the London Corresponding Society, every man’s letters, who was a member of any of these societies, which were in correspondence together (for your lordship will recollect, that the conspirators, if there are any, are all who have been moving to this purpose by affiliated societies), their bureaus might be broken open, their letters intercepted at the post-office, or he seized upon by the magistracy, and your lord ship might have to read the correspondence of every man in these societies ; I wish to know that, because it may be material, and 1 may withdraw my objection. Shall I, in my turn, be allowed to produce the letters of all the members of these societies to their friends? Certainly not; it would be absurd and foolish to expect it: therefore, upon every principle of law, I object to this letter of Mr. Martin’s being read, unless it can be shown that his letter is connected with something that Mr. Hardy and he have done together, and that it can be brought home to Mr. Hardy, that he knew the facts contained in that Neier, and that it was something done in the furtherance and accomplishment of a conspiracy between them, I certainly must object to any improper expressions in this letter being imputed to Mr. Hardy—I object to its being given in evidence. 
GIBBS 1433 After this point has been so ably argued by Mr. Erskine, I can add but very little; but this I must say, that it seems to be offering this letter with an endeavour to bring: befure your lordships precisely the same question again, If I touk what your lordship said accurately, when the decision was given upon the last point, and that evidence was rejected, your lordship said, that in Dammaree’s case, and in lord George Gordon’s case, it was true, that the declarations of persons when the prisoners were not present were received in evidence; but they were received for this reason, because they had becn present at the collection of the mob, and, during the riots of those mobs, in the transactions of which it was endeavoured to implicate the prisoners : what they declared while they were in action, was admissible evidence, to show what the object of these insurrections was, and therefore it was re ceived: but your lordships have never determined, tbat that which was declared by a pergon unconnected with the prisoner at the bar, except as he may, at particular occasions, have been brought into his company, could in any case be received as evidence. 
GIBBS 1434 i understand the line to be this: when a fman is indicted for that which is done by a great collection of men assembled together, and he is present at some times and absent at others, the declarations of other men acting with him in that very act for which he is indicted, are admissible evidence to show what the object of that assembly was: But why was the letter last offered, rejected? For this reason, because it contained a relation of facts, of which relation of facts the prisoner was not cognizant: he did not know that these facts were so related: What is the present letter? I asked to see it before I addressed your lordships: I was told I must not sec it, that it was irregular; from what I have collected of it, it is no more than the last letter: it contains a relation of facts, and then they would add to it, that the object of this relation of facts, was to keep up the spirits of a person at Edinburgh; ifunderstood the argument, that was the drift of it. 
GIBBS 1436 Certainly ; I am arguing under great difficulties; my object was, to show at this is the same question which your 
GIBBS 1437 Lordships have decided upon the former argument; I desired to see the letter before I addressed my argument to your lordships, which may certainly be all mere air, if I am mistaken in the fact; I was told in point of regularity, I could notseethe letter, and therefore I can only argue it upon the recoliection of what was loosely stated: it might be sc intended, in the mind of the writer of it, to keep up the spirits of Mr. Margarot : But was that object communicated to the prisoner? Did he mean that those facts should be so related? The real object for producing this letter, is this—that the representation of facts contained in that letter, b the writer of it (and in the writing of which fetter the prisoner is not in any respect implicated), that the narration of facts by the writer of the letter, should be fixed upon the peisoners that whatever the writer of that letter has improvidently, foolishly, rashly, or I will say unlawfully expressed in that letter that rashness, folly, or illegality, may be fixed upon Mr. Hardy. It seems to me, that this case comes directly within the spirit of your lordships decision upon the last argument. 
GIBBS 1438 Cases were stated upon the last argument, in which the declarations of third persons were received against a prisoner; but it was only in cases where the prisoner was indicted for joining in the act of a multitude, where persons are sometimes present and sometimes abpent; a part of that multitude, at the time they were unlawfully collected, for which unlawful collection the prisoner was among others indicted; part of them had deel what was their object. I agree that may be evidence against a prisoner, and he must exculpate himself if he can; but that a letter shauld be evidence against Mr. Hardy, which he never saw, and for a purpose to which he never acceded, seems to me against all law, and I am sure that it is against all justice ; for the object of this indictment is to try the mind of Mr. Hardy—to try whether he did in his mind compass the death of the king. And surely, justice docs not require that that which is proved to pass in the mind of one man ahauld fix a similarity of sentiment in the mind of another, who neither directed the letter to be written which is offered in evidence, nor ever afterwards knew that the letter was written, which letter too never was received. 
GIBBS 1440 I beg your pardon, I would not have you take my argument improperly ; I did not say conspirators in action, but I said that where a number of men are indicted for acts of violence in which they unite, and the prisoner is sometimes present and sometimes absent, that what is stated by some of those persons who are said to co-operate with him in some of those acts of violence may be evidence. 
ERSKINE 1475 I must beg to interrupt my learned friend ; I beg his pardon ; that part of the letter has been, within these three minutes, expressly given up by Mr. Serjeant Adair, as counsel for the crown, who finished what he had to say before my friend got up, by saying, that that part of the letter which my friend now chooses to read aloud, in the hearing of the jury, he did not mean to contend to be evidence against the prisoner—and, therefore, if the letter comes to be read, the letter will be read with the omission of that part; or if the omission did not take place, that part is admitted by Mr. Serjeant Adair, not to be evidence against the prisoner. 
ERSKINE 1477 Does your lordship think, that it is consistent with the rules which must 
ERSKINE 1478 ; bind us upon this occasion, that, in arguing the admissibility of a piece of evidence, they are not merely to state to the Court the general nature of it, so that the Court may ive its decision before a thing, which, peraps, is not afterwards to be received in evidence, should make any thing like an impression, but to read the paper itself. 
ERSKINE 1480 My friend is not merely reading the lettcr, in that part which one of the counsel, at least, admitted not to be evidence, but he is commenting upon it, step by stcp
ERSKINE 1485 I am in possession of the judgment of the Court on that which Mr. Bearcroft calls an interruption. 
ERSKINE 1498 My lord, unless I mistake the cause, and the stage we are now arrived at in it, this is novel. I think I may call ita phenomenon in the history of trials for high treason, and in the practice of a court of justice. My lord, standing here towards the middle of the second day, I must appeal to the honour of the Court, and to the candour of the bar, whether we who are of counsel for the prisoner have not been extremely ready,— perhaps, readier than we might altogether justify to our client in a capital case,—in permitting the reception of evidence, having troubled your lordships with no arguments, having asked hardly a single question of any witness that has been sworn. I am persuaded, when your lordships recollect the course that this cause has taken, that you cannot but see that we should have made no sort of objection to the reading of this letter, had it contained nothing more than my learned friend Mr. Garrow very decently, in my opinion, and very properly stated to the Court, considering and properly considering, that though the Court might be involved in the difficulty in reading a part of a letter, which part could in no instance be evidence against the prisoner, yet that the technicality of the evidence might unfortunately call upon your lordships to direct a jury to do that which a judge cannot direct a jury to do, because human nature will not permit the accomplishment of it—to discharge from their minds the recolJection of what they have heard. My friend did, therefore, properly not even open the generality of that part of the letter; but what have I in this cause to do with any thing that Mr. Martin might write, and which may appear for any thing I know to be an unpublished letter in Mr. Martin’s therefore upon no principle of Jaw to be evidence at all. I conceived that we were debating it as far as related to the prosecution of what was called a plot and conspiracy ; namely, that which was published in all the newspapers, and which your lordships have been engaged two daysin hearing read. [must be a fool to stand here and object to reading a paper which contains nothing more than what the jury have been employed two days of their precious time in hearing; but so it went on, and at last Mr. Serjeant Adair said, that, which ifit had been said at first, I would have waved my objection, and the jury should have heard the letter, and that part would have been crossed out, or the officer would have been desired not to read it; and I defy any man of common sense to say he could suppose I should object to it. Do not let any Man explain away that which I did say, and that which the honourable and learned serjeant stated, with the sense that belongs to him, and the humanity which, I trust, will ever accompany that sense. He stated that he did not mean to insist upon the jury hearing those lines read: he thought they ought not to hear ahem. 
ERSKINE 1499 Then cames the next learned counsel, and he makes pot a single observation upon apy ossession, and other part of the letter which is stated to he. in furtherance of that which is called the conspiracy; but he fastens upon that, and proposes to read that which the counsel whe went before him admitted was mo evidence against my client. I stood up to object, not to interrupt. I stand here to object whenever there is a legal objection open tome. I had your lordships j ent for the foundation of my objection; but my friend paid no regard to your lordships judgment: after I was possessed of your lordshipsiudement; he went on and read the very words aguinst the reading of which I objected; and having done so, he kindly tells me that as J am counsel in a criminal case, he receives my interruption with a gentleness with which he would not receive such an interruption in a civil cause. He says this after he has dane that which is illegal, and has not been stopped in the doing it, though I objected to rt, and was in possession of the judgment of the a 4 i 
ERSKINE 1500 My lords, this is no trifling matter, gi me leave to say, 1 stand here for the ike of an innocent man; and I stand here fur the law and constitution of England, and I wild suffer nothing to be done while I stand bers that is not consonant to both. Then where are we got to now in the debate? We ape got to that which fills me with alarm and apprehension ; it is an object of 2 magnitude so great, so mighty, and what I am so unaccustomed to consider, that I hardly know how to grapple with it, or how to address myself to your lardships. 
ERSKINE 1501 ttis truly stated too by the learned serjeant that what the crown profess lo make eut by the evidence they haye been offering a0 your lordships for a great season is, that Mr. was engaged ina conspiracy. Why is that unfortunate man at the bar to be the only victim of a conspiracy? I do not mean the only one; there are eight or ten indicted with him. How many thousands of his majesty’s subjects are meant to be hrought to this place I cannot tell; fer the conspiracy that is .alleged goes to the members of every ene of the societies. I say, in my judgment, epom the evidence that is before the Court, man who has been a member of these Comesponding Societies; who has been a member of this Constitutional Society; every man who has been connected with those acts, if the acts constitute a conspiracy to subvert the government, is liable to be put into the same Situation with Mr. Hardy; and any thing thas is written by any one person belonging to either of these societies would be eq avidence against him. 
ERSKINE 1502 The whole distinction seems to be this, and that distinction seems misunderstued. agree with Mr. Solicitor General in what be said, with regard to lord Stafford’s case, founding itself as far as relates to acts. Now if this had been within the scope of the business under examination, an act done by Margarot and by Martin, i shall admit thet such act done would be evidence against the prisoner; but I am abjecting to a letter, more especially a letter that never found its way to the person to whom it was written; that it was ever intended for Mr. Margarot, as far as the evidence goes, we do not know; but by the contents of which letter we are suught to be affected. 
ERSKINE 1503 Noy there is only ene thing I am anxious about. I wish to submit it to the justice and to the discretion of this Court. Suppose part of this letter is evidence, and part of it is aot on ae that part which is mot evidence to 
ERSKINE 1504 It happens every day that four lodships direct part of an answer to ax interrogatory to be in a court of equity; but you will act allow other parts to be readl, because they are not admissible evidence. Now all that I ob, ject to is, the reading this account of an old woman throwing her pattea at she king’s coach ; it is something 0 perfectly ridiculous ; 
ERSKINE 1505 aman’s writing such a trurppery eneodote as that, should affect a man trying for his life in such a case as this, it would be an imault to suppose; but at the same time it . 3 te me to be a dangerous precedent, to allow aay thing to be read as evidence which has no connexion with the eransaction before ithe Court, but is mere fippancy, which she writer of a Ietter happens to put into it; which letter has in it matter that may became evidence. 
ERSKINE 1602 I certainly do object to it. 
ERSKINE 1690 Do you swear to that book, that it is one you published 
ERSKINE 1694 Is that the book or not? If that is not the book I object to it. 
ERSKINE 1701 That was the king against Mr. Paine; thisis the king against Mr. Hardy. 
ERSKINE 1725 Is your lordship of opinion that any printed book which is -tound in the possession of the prisoner is to be read. 
ERSKINE 1801 I desire the preface to be read. 
ERSKINE 1803 You may read the whole book, if you please. 
ERSKINE 1804 “ To M. De La Fayette. 
ERSKINE 1805 “ After an acquaintance of nearly fifteen years, in difficult situations in America, and various consultations in Europe, I feel a pleagure in presenting to yo this small treatise, be received before I ventured farther. A 
ERSKINE 1806 in gratitude for your services to my beloved America, and as a testimony of my esteem for the virtues, public and private, whichI t field was opening to the view of manind by means of the French Revolution, 
ERSKINE 1807 Mr. Burke’s outrageous Opposition thereto know you to possess. brought the controversy into England. He 
ERSKINE 1808 “ The only point upon which I could everattacked principles which he knew (from im discover that we differed, was not as to prin-formation) I would contest with him, because ciples of government, but as to time. For they are principles I believe to be yood, and my own part, I think it equally as injuriouswhich I 
ERSKINE 1809 ave contributed to establish, and to good principles to permit them to linger, as ; conceive myself bound to defend. Had he to push them on too fast. That which you ; not ee the controversy, I had most prosuppose neuen pe able in fourteen or fifteenbably years, I may believe practicable in a much een a silent man, “Another reason for deferring the re shorter period. Mankind, as it appears to ‘mainder of the work was, that Mr. Burke me, are always ripe enough to understand promised in his first publication to renew the their true interest, provided it be presentedsubject at another opportunity, and to make a clearly to their understanding, and that in a comparison of what he called the English and manner not to create suspicion by any thing : French constitutions. I therefure held myself like self-design, nor offend b assuming tooin reserve for him. He has published two much. Where we would wish to reform weworks since, without dving this; which he must not reproach. certainly would not have omitted, had the “ When the American revolution was esta-comparison been in his favour. 
ERSKINE 1810 blished, I felt a disposition to sit serenelydown and enjoy the calm. It did not appear ‘ 
ERSKINE 1811 “In his last work, “ His Appeal From the New to the Old Whigs, he;has quoted about to me that any object could afterwards ariseten Pages from the Rights of’ Man, and having great enough to make'me quit tranquillity, given himself the trouble of doin this, says, and feel as I had felt beture. But when prin- ; he shall not attempt in the smallest degree to ciple, and not place, is the energetic cause of ; refute them, meaning the principles therein action, a man, I find, is every where the same contained. I am enough acquainted with 
ERSKINE 1812 “ Tam now once more in the public world;Mr. Burke to know, that he would if he could, and as I have nota rizht to contemplate on ! But instead of contesting them, he imme50 many years of remaining life as you have, . diately after consoles himself with saying, I am resolved to labour as fast as I can; and that he has done his part.
ERSKINE 1814 “ 1f you make a campaign the ensuinghas fled from it; and he is now a case in spring, which itis most probable there will be no occasion for, I will come and join you.Should the campaign commence, I hope it ! 
ERSKINE 1815 point with his own opinion, that, the age of chivalry is gone ! “ The title, as well as the substance of his will terminate in the extinction of German " last work, his ‘ Appeal,’ is his condemnation. despotism, and in establishing the freedom of ; Principles must stand on their own merits, all Germany. When France shall be sur-and if they are good the: certainly will, To rounded with revolutions, she will be in peace and safety, and her taxes, as well as those of Germany, will consequently become less. Your sincere, affectionate friend, put them under the shelter of other men’s authority, as Mr. Burke has done, serves to bring them into suspicion, Mr. Burke is not very fond of dividing his honours, but in “ Thomas Parne.th is case he is artfully dividing the disgrace. 
ERSKINE 1816 “ London, Feb. 9, 1792. But who are those to whom Mr. Burke has 
ERSKINE 1817 “ Prerace. 
ERSKINE 1818 made his appeal? A set of childish thinkers and half-way politicians born in the last 
ERSKINE 1819 “When I began the chapter intituled the century ; men who went no farther with any “ Conclusion in the former part of the principle than as it suited their purpose as a RIGHTS or MAN, published last year, itparty; the nation was always left out of the was my intention to have extended it to a question ; and this has been the character of greater length; but in casting the whole every party from that day to this. The nation matter in my mind which I wished to add, Isees nothing in such works, or such politics 
ERSKINE 1820 I found that must either make the work too worthy its attention. A little matter will bulky, or contract my plan too much. Imove a party, but it must be something great therefore brought it to a close as soon as thethat moves a nation. 
ERSKINE 1821 subject would admit, and reserved what I had 
ERSKINE 1822 “ Though I see nothing in Mr. Burke’s further to say to another opportunity. Appeal worth taking much notice of, there is, 
ERSKINE 1823 “ Several other reasons contributed to prohowever, one expression upon which I shall duce this determination. I wished to knowoffer a few remarks
ERSKINE 1825 (if such writings shall be thought to deserve any other refutation than that of criminal jusbi rine) by others who may think with Mr. Burke, and with the same zeal.’ 
ERSKINE 1826 “ In the first place, it has not yet been done by any body. Not less, I believe, than eight or ten pamphlets intended as answers to the former part of the ‘ Rights of Man’ have been published by different persons, and not one of them, to my knowledge, has extended to a second edition, nor are even the titles of them so much as generally remembered. As I am averse to unnecessarily multiplying publications, I have answered none of them. And as I believe that a man may write himself out of reputation when nobody else can do it, I am careful to avoid that rock. 
ERSKINE 1827 But as I would decline urnecessary publieations on the one hand, so would I avoid every thing that might appear like sullen pride on the other. If Mr. Burke, or any person on his side the question, will produce an answer to the Rights of Man,’ that shall extend to an half, or even to a fourth part of the number of copies to which the Rights of Man extended, I will reply to his work. But until this be done, I shall so far take the sense of the public for my guide (and the world knows I am not a flatterer) that what they do not think worth while to read, is not worth mine to answer. I suppose the number of copies to which the first part of the Rights of Man extended, taking England, Scotland, and [reland, is not tess than between forty and fifty thousand. 
ERSKINE 1828  now come to remark on the remaining part of the quotation I have made from Mr. Burke. 
ERSKINE 1829 “ f) says he, ‘such writings shall be thought to deserve any other refutation than that of criminal justice. 
ERSKINE 1830 “ Pardoning the pun, it must be criminal justice indeed that should condemn a work as a substitute for not being able to refute it. The greatest condemnation that could be passed upon it would be a refutation. But in proceeding by the method Mr. Burke alludes to, the condemnation would, in the final event, pass upon the criminality of the process and not tspon the work, and in this case, I had rather be the author, than be either the judge, or the jury, that should condemn it. But to come at once to the point. Thave differed from some professional gentlemen on the subject of prosecutions, and I since find they are falling into my opinion, which I will here state as fully, but as concisely as I can. 
ERSKINE 1831 “will first put a case with respect to any law, and then compare it with a government, or with what in England is, or has been called a constitution. “ It would be an act of despotism, or what in England is called arbitrary power, to make a law to prohibit investigating the principles, good or bad, on which such a law, or any other is founded. 
ERSKINE 1832 “ Ifa lew be bad, it is one thing to oppose the practice of it, but it is quite a different thing to expose its errors, to reason on its defects, and to show cause why it should be repealed, or why another ought to be substi tuted in its place. I have always held it an opinion (making it also my practice) that it is better to obey a bad law, making use at the same time of every argument to show its errors and procure its repeal, than forcibly to violate it; Mecaine the precedent of bree a bad law might weaken the force, and } 
ERSKINE 1833 to a discretionary violation, of those which ate good. 
ERSKINE 1834 “ THe case is the same with respect to principles and forms of government, or to what are called constitutions and the parts of which they are composed. 
ERSKINE 1835 “ It is for the good of nations, and not for the emolument or aggrandizement of particular individuals, that government ought to be established, and that mankind are at the expence of supporting it. The defects of every government and constitution, both as to principle and form must, on a parity of reasoning, be as open to discussion as the defects of a law, and itis a duty which every man owes to society to point them out. When those defects, and the means of remedying them are generally seen by a nation, that nation will reform its government or its constitution in the one case, as the government repealed or reformed the law in the other, The operation of government is restricted to the making and the administering of laws; but it is to a nation that the right of forming or reforming, generating or regenerating con stitutions and governments belong ; and consequently those subjects, as subjects of investigation, are always before a country as a matter of right. aud cannot, without invading the general rights of that country, be made subjects for prosecution. On this ground I will meet Mr. Burke whenever he please. It is better that the whule argument should come out, than to seek to stifle it. It was himself that opened the controversy, and he ought not to desert it. , 
ERSKINE 1836 “ I do not believe that monarchy and aristocracy will continue seven years longer in any of the enlightened countries in Europe. If better reasons can be shown for them than against them, they will stand; if the contrary, they will not. Mankind are not now to he told they shall not think, or they shalk not read ; and publications that go no farther than to investigate principles of government, to invite men to reason and to reflect, and to shew the errors and excellencies of different systems, have aright to appear. If they do not excite attention, they are not worth the trouble of a prosecution; aud if they do, the prosecution will amount to nothing, since it cannot amount to a prohibition of reading. This would be a sentence on the public, mstead of the author, and would also be the ninst effectual mode of making or hastening revolutions. 
ERSKINE 1837 “ On all cases that apply universally to a nation, With respect to systems of government, a jury of twelve men is not competent to decide. Where there are no witnesses to be examined, no facts to be proved, and where the whole matter is before the whole public, and the merits or demerits of it resting on their opinion; and where there is nothing to be known ina court, but what every body knows out of it, every twelve men is equally as good a jury as the other, and would most probably reverse each other’s verdict; or from the variety of their opinions, not be able to form one. It is one case, whether the nation approve a work, or aplan; but is quite another case, whether it will commit to any such jury the ower of determining whether that nation ave a right to, or shall reform its government or not. I mention those cases, that Mr. Burke may see I have not written on government without reflecting on what is law, as well as on what are rights
ERSKINE 1839 “As to the prejudices which men have from education and habit, in favour of any particular form or system of government, those paspiices have yet to stand the test of reason and reflection. In fact, such prejudices are nothing. No man is prejudiced in favour of a thing, knowing it to be wrong. He is attached to it on the belief of te tela right ; and when he sees it is not so, the prejudice will be gone. We have but a defective idea of what prejudice is. It might be said, that until nien think for themselves the whole is prejudice, and not opinion; for that ouly is Opinion which is the result of reason and reflection. I offer this remark, that Mr. Burke may not confide too much in what has been the customary prejudices of the country. 
ERSKINE 1840 “ TI do not believe that the people of England have ever been fairly and candidly dealt by. They have been imposed upon by parties, and by men assuming the character of leaders. It is time that the nation should rise above those trifles. It is time to dismiss that inattention which has so long been the encouraging cause of stretching taxation to excess. Itis time to dismiss all those songs and toasts which are calculated to enslave, and operate to suffocate reflection. On all such subjects men have but to think, and they will neither act wrong nor be misled. Tosay that any people are not fit for freedom, is to make poverty their choice, and to say they had rather be loaded with taxes than not. If such a case could be proved, it would equally prove, that those who govern are not fit to govern them, for they area part of the same national mass, 
ERSKINE 1841 “ But admitting governments to be changed all over Europe; it certainly may be done without convulsion or revenge. It is not worth making changes or revolutions, unless it be for some great national benefit; and when this shall appear toa nation, the danger will be, as in America and France, to those who oppose ; and with this reflection I close my preface. 
ERSKINE 1842 homas Paine. London, Feb. 9, 1792. 
ERSKINE 1975 Do you mean to swear that the large edition is; that either is
ERSKINE 2237 If your lordship thinks these papers may be taken as evidence, I have no interest in disputing it, I only wish to have the sanction of the Court; Iam not anxious about it. 
ERSKINE 2240 Is there the whole of it? 
ERSKINE 2259 I wish it to be understood, that these gentlemen are speaking in their place, as members of the National Assembly in France. 
ERSKINE 2261 You stated it very particularly in your opening. 
ERSKINE 2387 Can you venture to give any thing like a distinct account of how that paper came to be so interlined as itis now
ERSKINE 2389 Nor can you tell whether that was given to you for the purposes of inserlion, but that it was so obliterated that you were obliged to make another copy 
ERSKINE 2446 I see Mr. Hardy was nat there. 
ERSKINE 2512 This letter having been already read, I should be sorry to insist upon the Court and Jury hearing it again, but when parts of papers are read, other parts may be out of recollection ; though your lordships and I may have a recollection of it, the jury may not: I cannot tell whether every body else will form the same opinion of my case that I do, otherwise I should not be apprehensive of any thing. 
ERSKINE 2566 This letter having been already read, I should be sorry to insist upon the Court and Jury hearing it again, but when parts of papers are read, other parts may be out of recollection ; though your lordships and I may have a recollection of it, the jury may not: I cannot tell whether every body else will form the same opinion of m case that I do, otherwise I should not be apprehensive of any thing. 
ERSKINE 2632 I am not particularly anxious fora song at the present moment. 
ERSKINE 2796  Do you mean to swear that these are two of the very books that were printed for Symonds and your husband
ERSKINE 2798 Can you take upon you to swear that these are part of the copics actually printed for bio, or may they not have been printed by somebody else, and be extremely like them? You have never read tie book thruugh, so as to be able to say that it isthe same You only see that this is intituled “ A Letter addressed -to the Addressers ; but there may be news in it, for any thing you know 
ERSKINE 2800 Nor do you know it by the type, the paper, or any thing about it
ERSKINE 2804 I submit to your lordsbip, that this evidence is not sufficient to entitle them to read these pamphlets. I require, and Lask no more, that whenever it relates to this society or that, no matter what bearing it may have upun the issue of the cause, that the’ should be fixed by the same evidence as woul be necessary if they were tried tor the publication of a libel
ERSKINE 2806 Mr. Attorney General. I have given no evidence yet, that I mean to give louse proof in this cause; Lut I by no means admit the Proposition to the eatent in which Mr. Erskine states it. 
GIBBS 2832 Do you think that is evidence? I do not mean to moot the question, 
ERSKINE 2836 I am sure this evidence is very imperfect—no man could be fined five pounds upon such evidence. 
ERSKINE 2837 Rickman
ERSKINE 2841 Do you mean to take upon u to swear that these are two of the identical ooks that were sent to you for'sale
ERSKINE 2843 They may be exactly like them, or part like them, and yet be printed by others—lIs there any thing in the paper, or the type, that can enable you to swear to “them
ERSKINE 2848 Will your lordship allow a man to look at a book to which he cannot swear, in order to prove that that is the identical book ? 
ERSKINE 2850  Not having the original book here, could he be permitted to say, I do not bring the original book, but ] bring a copy ? 
ERSKINE 2874  Is the reason why you have no doubt from: the general appearauce of the book, or have you no duubt because you have satisfied your understanding, by comparing that book witly the recollection you have of the former, having a perfect recollection of every sentence in the former 
ERSKINE 2876 Then could you take upon you to swear, that it is exactly the same, word by word, and letter by letter
ERSKINE 2965 I understand the Court to be of opinion (indzed I am not at all disposed to argue it) that this book must be taken, at present, to be the Letter addressed to the Addressers, upon the Proclamation, by Thomas Paine. What I wish to know, is, how it is proposed to make this taking it to be the book it is alleged to be, evidence in this cause. I perfectly understand why the Rights of Man were stated to be so, because ‘those whom this prosecution proposes to implicate in certain acts—the Corresponding Society, having come to a resolution to circulate it, therefore it was fair evidence. 
ERSKINE 2967 I understand that there is no evidence yet before the Court of any resolution of either of the societies to circulate this book, or to recommend it to reading. 
ERSKINE 2973 I may show a knowledge, but does not show an aprrobetiant 
ERSKINE 3076 What he adviced in private ! 
ERSKINE 3078 But what a man says in private! 
ERSKINE 3080 My idea is this, what an agent might say in a separate case in private— 
ERSKINE 3161 That will not de; not that it signifies any thing: 
ERSKINE 3195 What did he say? Is thata a ay put a question to your own witness ? 
ERSKINE 3288 This examination is not regee this is Mr. Law’s evidence—but I 
ERSKINE 3289 not care about it. 
ERSKINE 3315  You were asked this question by the counset for the crown, From what passed amengst the members, what was the professed object of this society? To which you answered, a par liamentary reform
ERSKINE 3317 Was that your object when you became a member of that society 
ERSKINE 3319 ee say you were secretary to that society
ERSKINE 3321 From the year 1791, to 1793 
ERSKINE 3323 Will you explain to the gentlemen of the jury, when you became a member of this society, in order to obtain a parliamertary reform: You were asked, what z among the different members? What was their object? What sort of parliamentary reform was it, that you fairly, as a man, meant 
ERSKINE 3325 A more equal representation of the people, where 
ERSKINE 3327 In what branch of parliament
ERSKINE 3329 Had you any idea by a parliamentary reform, in your own inind, when you ea member, or when you continued’ there, to touch the king’s majesty, or the House of Lords
ERSKINE 3331 Never in your life 
ERSKINE 3333 Task you in the presence of God, to whom you will answer, hall you any idea of destroyin ihe king, or the House of Lords
ERSKINE 3335 Had you ever, in the whole course of your being a member of that society, and a secretary, from any proceedings of the assembly, from what passed among the members, from what they said and did a follow the question which the counsel correctly put) ; had you apy reason to think that any of them meant differently from yourself
ERSKINE 3337 Then F understand you to say, upon the oath you have taken, and subject to the consequences here and hereafter, that there was no such idea either in your own wind, or from what you knew from others, what they said and what they did, in the mind of any other of the members 
ERSKINE 3339 When you said that the resolve was not to petition parliament, did you mean not to petition it at that time, or never to petition it, when the sentiments of the people at large could be known 
ERSKINE 3341 Was it ever pointed out, or from any thing which passed in your presence during all your attendance, that this change in the representation of the people in the House of Commons was to be carried by force of arms and violence 
ERSKINE 3343 If you had had an idea that the members of your society, or of other societies in the different parts of the kingdom, meant by combining force to over-rule the inclinations of the people at large, and the inclinations of the arliament, would you have continued a memer of it
ERSKINE 3345 Didyou eyer hear any thing said, or see any thing done, which led you to suspect, that it was the intention, even of any mischievous individuals among you
ERSKINE 3347 If you had had an idea, independently of force, that the object you were about might ultimately have affected the safety and honour of your sovereign upon the throne, would you have continued in that society 
ERSKINE 3349 You say you continued secretary ull the year 1793.—Did you read with attention, all that you signed
ERSKINE 3351 Did you continue to be a member after you ceased to be secretary
ERSKINE 3353 Did you continue to be a member up to the time when you were taken up 
ERSKINE 3355 Did you see any reason, before the time you were taken up, tu change your sentiments concerning the opinions of those with whom you associated 
ERSKINE 3357 Have you had any reason to believe,—I ask you to look in upon your own soul, when you answer the question, that, though they might not intend mischief originally when associated, they began to intend mischief
ERSKINE 3359 When was it that your meetings began to be threatened with joterruption
ERSKINE 3361 Do you remember the time when-the convention was to meet in Edinburgh 
ERSKINE 3363 Was there any thing proposed by the society of which you were a member, or did yqu ever hear any thing said, or see any thing done to the effect, that this convention was to put down the king, and the upper House, and to be itself the king and the parlisment 
ERSKINE 3365 Did it ever enter into your conception, that this convention was to make laws for the public, or perform the functions of any part of the state
ERSKINE 3367 ‘Was it then to consider, what would be the best means in a legal manner to effect a change in the representation of the people in the House of Commons 
ERSKINE 3369 Whether it was not universally said, among your society (I am following Mr. Law's question) that, though a petition from a small number ofindividusls would be neglected, and therefore you laid aside petitioning, whether it was not the general declarations,—I am not speaking of men’s secret ideas, but as far as they were manifested,—that when you had got the sentiments of a great number of a respectable part of the people, and were then to petition, at a convention, that the House of Commons would attcnd to your petition, though they would not attend to a petition from a small body of men 
ERSKINE 3371 Was that your idea
ERSKINE 3373 Was that, upon your oath, what you collected to be the gencral sentiments of the peeple 
ERSKINE 3375 Were you, while you continued a member of the society, and up to the time that you were taken up, really a friend to the British constitution, in its purity 
ERSKINE 3377 Had you any wish to bring into England, the desolations and the’anarchies that are in France 
ERSKINE 3379 Had you a wish to see the king put down from his throne, we will not even talk of his death, but had you a wish to see the king, and the royal family, put down from their state and dignity
ERSKINE 3381 Should not you have Saxahe yourself the most wicked and abandoned of mankind, if you had remained an hour in that society, if you had thought that the wish of that society
ERSKINE 3383 Did you, from what you saw, or from what you beard, syspect that to be behind the curtain, and the intentions of those people, though they expressed themselves differently? 
ERSKINE 3386 And I am much more “pleased to’ accept it, upon the attorney general's declaration now, than tu argue the “point, whatever might be my own opinion concerning it—Then, fron what you ob‘served, saw, and heurd, had you any reason to believe then, or do you now believe, that, though the papers that were signed carried “upon the faces of them parliamentary reform, as you have expresged it, that there was an intention, in point of fact, to destroy the constitution of Great Britain
ERSKINE 3388 You say, for the first time, you began to be interrupted in your proceedings, in 1793 
ERSKINE 3390 What were the nature of the threats you 
ERSKINE 3391 “received, and what were you afraid of?’—We “were afraid of the opposite party making an attack upon us in our meetings, or out of doors. 
ERSKINE 3392 What do you mean by the opposite party? the king and parliament? or the eople of Sheffield, of a different opinion The people in Sheffield, of a different opinion. 
ERSKINE 3393 You were afraid of the opposite party, of the people who thought differently from you, that they intended to persecute you
ERSKINE 3395 Did you believe, at the time you were threatened to be interrupted, that you were doing what was legal? — Yes; we beews we were duing every thing that was legal. 
ERSKINE 3396 Did you, for one, believe you were doin what was legal 
ERSKINE 3398 What was the nature of the apprehension that you had, at the time that Mr. Yorke Proposed your having arms to defend yourselves
ERSKINE 3400 What people 
ERSKINE 3402 Had you any other intention, or from all that you heard in your society, from Mr. Yorke himself, or any body in your society, that any other use was intended to be made 
ERSKINE 3403 ‘of these three dozen of pikes, or any thing else you had, but merely to defend yourselves
ERSKINE 3405 Do you believe, from any thing you heard or saw, that it was in the contemplation of any body to employ these pikes, or any other arms, against the king and the parliament 
ERSKINE 3407 Would you have remained an hour in that society, if you had any reason to see, that that was the use intended to be made of those arms 
ERSKINE 3409 Under what law 
ERSKINE 3411 Was that the manner in which the right to have these arms was debated in your society 
ERSKINE 3413 But was any thing said about your right to have arms, if you were attacked by malicious people
ERSKINE 3417 Was it ever debated amongst you, that if you were commanded by the whole authority of the state, that you were to raise arms amongst the people to support the authority of your convention as 3 parliament
ERSKINE 3419 Was there ever any hint that the laws were to be made by those twenty or thirty people at Edinburgh
ERSKINE 3421 What did you consider these people at Edinburgh were to do, who were a convention from these different societies 
ERSKINE 3423 Were they to consider what were the best means to go on, in a legal and peaceable manner, to obtain a parliamentary reform 
ERSKINE 3425 Did you know Mr. Hardy 
ERSKINE 3427 Did you really think, that you were com tending for rights that rendered more secure, and more permanent, the king's title
ERSKINE 3429 Do you recollect why that particu species of arms was rccommended, or apy thing said about these pikes
ERSKINE 3431 You saw a model of this cat —Yes. 
ERSKINE 3432 Were you an inhabitant of Sheffield at that time 
ERSKINE 3434 Did’ you ever see such a thing, or know that there was any one made fromm that model 
ERSKINE 3436 Did you ever see such a one in the kingdom or Great Britain 
ERSKINE 3438 But you never saw, nor none of your socicty, to your knowledge, ever saw any instrument ‘made after this model
GIBBS 3946  You said, about the time these pikes were talked about, there had been a mischievous band-bill circulated, for the purpose, as you Suppose, of exciting the people against the Society ; can you tell me what was the general substance of it
GIBBS 3948 But what was the general substance of it
GIBBS 3950 That was the first thing that was published ; at what time was it published? before or after this meeting that you speak of
GIBBS 3952 But you say the object of it was to provoke the people 
GIBBS 3954 people meant the society 
GIBBS 3956 ‘The cry was, they could never do any thing with yous unless they caused a riot against ou, they could make nothing of ite—it has been said so, but I cannot recollect who said At; but this wicked hand-bill appearing, without the sanction of the law, or the magistrate, —Ireadit; and, if I had been aware of this, I would have brought it; this was the cause of any thing being spoken concerning arms, 
GIBBS 3957 Among all the conversation you have ever heard upon the subject of these pikes, were they intended for the purpose of making an attack upon any power in this country, or onl. for defending yourselves, if you should be attacked
GIBBS 3959 Whether you ever collected, from those who talked of pikes, or ever produced any, that they meant to make any attack upon any of the powers in this country, or only to defend theinselves, if they were illegally attacked 
GIBBS 3961 Then they were meant only to be used ow the defensive 
GIBBS 3963 Had any of the people in this society to which you belonged, any idea of making any attack upon either the King, or the House of Lords? had they any idea of altering the government in that respect 
GIBBS 3965 Had you, as one of that socicty, any such intention yourself
GIBBS 3967 But to speak plain; by that you mean, I suppose, that you never had any such thought in your mind
GIBBS 3969 Was not the object of your meeting a parliamentary reform 
GIBBS 3971 Who were the members of the Friends of the People 
GIBBS 3973 Mr. Stuart, I believe was the secretary 
GIBBS 3975 Should you have continued a member of this society, ifyou had thoughtthat they had any intent of shaking either the king, or the lords, or of displacing the king from his throne
GIBBS 3977 You would not 
GIBBS 3979 Should you not have abhorred such en idea 
GIBBS 3981 Have you any reason, from any thing that ever passed in the society, to believe there was a single member of it who entertained such a notion
GIBBS 3983 The object of your meeting, you say, was to state to the people the grounds of certain evils which you thought to exist; and wished to bring about a parliamentary refurm. Ws that a parliamentary reform in the House of Commons
GIBBS 3985 You meant that the king and the lords should remain as they were ; but that there should be a reform in the House of Commons? woe Yes. 
GIBBS 3986 Did you believe, and was that the ground upon which you acted, that by producing such reform as you wished in the House of Commons, that those evils would be remedied 
GIBBS 3988 ‘Then do I understand you right, when I suppose this to have been your principle— that you thought the King, and the Lords, with the House of Commons, so reformed, would redress all your grievances 
GIBBS 3990 Was it your object to attain this end peaceably 
GIBBS 3992 T speak of your own particular object— Your object was to attain it peaceably 
GIBBS 3994 Have you any reason to think it was the object of any other man in the society, to use any but peaceable means to obtain it 
GIBBS 3996 Repeat that answer
GIBBS 3998 When that mecting was had, to be sure no moan can answer for the acts of those who should compose it, certainly not ; but had you any reason to suppose, that those whom you should send to that meeting would act otherwise than peaceably ? would youhavesent any who you did not think would have acted peaceably 
GIBBS 4000 And you have no reason to think that others would have acted otherwise than peaceably ? No;Ihave no reason to think so whatever, 
GIBBS 4001 When national representation was talked of by Mr. Yorke at this meeting, by national representation, was jt not meant the representation of the people of England in the House of Commons 
ERSKINE 4221  What are you 
ERSKINE 4223 Where do you live 
ERSKINE 4225 At what time of the year was it that you first went with your friend to this society 
ERSKINE 4227 Did you go for the purpose of being a member 
ERSKINE 4229 For what purpose did you go
ERSKINE 4231 Who is this friend
ERSKINE 4233 You went there perhaps from curiosity 
ERSKINE 4235 Was Mr. Yorke there that night 
ERSKINE 4237 Who might be there that first night 
ERSKINE 4239 What day of the month was it 
ERSKINE 4241 Try 
ERSKINE 4243 Did you hear any thing that offended you that night
ERSKINE 4245 How long did they sit 
ERSKINE 4247 What did they converse about 
ERSKINE 4249 Were they read
ERSKINE 4251 Then you heard it read 
ERSKINE 4253 Did you become a member that night 
ERSKINE 4255 After you had heard that read 
ERSKINE 4257 Then you were suddenly converted into a member; you went there out of mere curiosity, with no design of becoming a member, and at once, when Smith started up, you became a member
ERSKINE 4259 And Whitehorn went from curiosity 
ERSKINE 4261 When did you go next time
ERSKINE 4263 You say you attended seven meetings 
ERSKINE 4265 Was Yorke there the second time
ERSKINE 4267 Who was there the second time 
ERSKINE 4269 Did not you become acquainted with the people who were there, by conversing with them
ERSKINE 4271 You became a member, because you wished to Propagate their opinions and doctrines 
ERSKINE 4273 Then in plain English you went there as a spy:: did you not 
ERSKINE 4275 When you became a member, did not you become 8 member for the purpose of informing 
ERSKINE 4277 ‘ad you had any opinions upon the subjec of a reform ? did you wish a reform of parliament
ERSKINE 4279 Then why did you become a member if ou did not wish for a reform in parliament, ut for the purpose of being a spy 
ERSKINE 4281 Did you not know they were a society for parliamentary reform 
ERSKINE 4283 You say you did not wish a W ironing reform 
ERSKINE 4285 Did you wish a parliamentary reform when you became a member, when you heard that paper read the first night? Now mind; did you wish a parliamentary reform, or any alteration in the House of Commons or in the government any way ? Upon your oath; look across to the jury. Did you, upon your oath when you became a member of that society wish and desire to have any alteration in any part of the government? You need not look at me, I shall hear it well enough; why do you hesitate; come, cough it up, answer me that upon your oath; are you acquainted with Mr. Dunn, of Manchester
ERSKINE 4287 I should have thought you were? 
ERSKINE 4290 I am sorry for it; I believe you are the only one in court that does not: I will put it again to you, because I wish to be civil to you. Did you wish a parliamentary reform, or any alteration in the government, when you became a member of that society
ERSKINE 4292 Then upon your oath, why did you become a member of a society for parliamentary reform, if you wished nothing of the kind 
ERSKINE 4294 Then you read it
ERSKINE 4296 Did’ you read it before you went there again 
ERSKINE 4298 Then since you took the paper read in the society home with you, Pati read it in the interval between the first time and the second time of your going there, you must approve of it before you went a second time 
ERSKINE 4300 You thought there was danger in it 
ERSKINE 4302 What is become of the paper
ERSKINE 4304 Then you went of course, the second time, for the purpose of becoming an informer
ERSKINE 4306 Between the first and second time you went to that society, or before you went to it at all, had you been desired by any body to go for that purpose 
ERSKINE 4308 Then you went of your own mere motion, because you wished to be serviceable to the pipe by going there
ERSKINE 4310 When you were there you pretended to be a friend, no doubt, and to approve of what was going on
ERSKINE 4312 Whereas in fact you were a spy
ERSKINE 4314 You went the second time in order to be one 
ERSKINE 4316 Did you take down any minutes on paper
ERSKINE 4318 You went again a third time
ERSKINE 4320 They met weekly, did not they 
ERSKINE 4322 That would extend to near two months; then of course you can tell us what month it was in
ERSKINE 4324 How long ago; was it in 1793 or 1794
ERSKINE 4326 Was it winter or summer
ERSKINE 4328 How long before Christmas, think you
ERSKINE 4330 Should you know the persons if you saw then, that attended this meeting at the end of this year 
ERSKINE 4332 If you saw the countenances of the same eople that you saw in that room
ERSKINE 4334 Were they gencrally the same people, or different: people? — Different people; they came from ditterent divisions. 
ERSKINE 4335 How many people do you mean to swear were in the room that rose up and shook hands with Mr. Yorke, when he stated what you have told the jury about bloodshed and about arms
ERSKINE 4337 I have almost forgot the name of the place
ERSKINE 4339 Then they all shook hands with Mr. Yorke, in applause and approbation of what he said
ERSKINE 4341 Was that when he was going to Bel-gi-um
ERSKINE 4343 Was that the word he made use of, that he was going to Bel-gi-um
ERSKINE 4345 Had you heard of that place before 
ERSKINE 4347 And he said he was: going to head the French army 
ERSKINE 4349 You did this, no doubt, asa lover of your country mercly 
ERSKINE 4351 Nothing else but that
ERSKINE 4353 Then you went voluntarily, without ever bemg employed by any body, or desired by any body 
ERSKINE 4355 Who are they 
ERSKINE 4357 How long have you been in business for yourself 
ERSKINE 4359 What are you then
ERSKINE 4361 But not for yourself
ERSKINE 4363 You are in a very singular situation, I think; what do you mean by not being ina situation 
ERSKINE 4365 How long is it since you were in employment 
ERSKINE 4367 Where did you live 
ERSKINE 4369 Where there 
ERSKINE 4371 He is a linen-draper, I suppose 
ERSKINE 4373 —he has since let his shop to another ; he carries on the tayloring business. 
ERSKINE 4374 How long did you live with Mr. Kellerby
ERSKINE 4376 You came to him-in December
ERSKINE 4378 ae came to him as a shopman, did you
ERSKINE 4380 ‘Where did you live before that 
ERSKINE 4382 Did you live long there
ERSKINE 4384 Since you last left this Mr. Kellerby, have you been applying for any other business
ERSKINE 4386 What sort of business? (look across to the jary)—For the same. 
ERSKINE 4387 mk is a long time in this town, where there is so much linen and callico, to be out of business; whom have you applied to, durin, that time, to be employed
ERSKINE 4389 To whom
ERSKINE 4391 Whom else
ERSKINE 4393 How happened it you left him 
ERSKINE 4395 Then you have lost your business by attending here 
ERSKINE 4397 Then you are a good patriot, indeed! so that from a zeal for the truth, and in order to jane that which you have been proving, you roke off your agreement with this Mr. Marley 
ERSKINE 4399 What was he to give you a year 
ERSKINE 4401 How long ago is it since you entered into this engagement with him
ERSKINE 4403 You know, I do not know when he opened shop; when was that
ERSKINE 4405 How long was it before he opened shop, that you entered into this agreement with him 
ERSKINE 4407 A day or two days
ERSKINE 4409 How long
ERSKINE 4411 Soyou entered into an agreement with him; when did you go to tell him that you could not goon with this agreement 
ERSKINE 4413 How long ago 
ERSKINE 4415 How long ago is it that you had the subpeena 
ERSKINE 4417 Were you told it was necessary that you should give up your employment for that 
ERSKINE 4419 Did you ask, whether they would ‘allow you to continue with this linen-draper, and give ean notice when you should be wanted 
ERSKINE 4421 Did you apply to the solicitor of the treasury, or any body engaged in this prosecution, to tell them that you had entered into such an engagement 
ERSKINE 4423 So you gave up your employment voluntarily, because you were wanted here at the Old-Bailey, for half an hour
ERSKINE 4425 Did you ask Mr. Marley whether he would consent to take you as his shopman, and allow you to come here for the purpose of giving evidence 
ERSKINE 4427 Had you an idea that Mr. Marley would have refused to permit you to obey the king’s writ, by coming to give evidence here 
ERSKINE 4429 Where is Mr. Marley’s shop 
ERSKINE 4431 So you mean to swear, that having entered into an engagement with Mr. Marley, to receive 25. a year, you put yourself out of employ without ever asking him, whether your attendance here was consistent with his employment, or asking the solicitor of the treasury, whether he would give you notice when you would be wanted to give evidence 
ERSKINE 4433 What reason did you give him
ERSKINE 4435 Then you do not speak the truth, I suppose, unless when you are upon oath 
ERSKINE 4437 Why then did you tell him you were going out of town 
ERSKINE 4439 How could you expect it when you knew that this trial was coming on, and you were subpenaed here
ERSKINE 4441 What made you suppose you should be called to go down to Sheffield as soon as this. trial was over 
ERSKINE 4443 Mad any body told you you were to be employed upon that business, after you had been here upon this job 
ERSKINE 4445 Then what made you think you were to go down to Sheffield after Mr. Yorke 
ERSKINE 4447 “Who informed you so
ERSKINE 4449 You told me a little while ago you did not know you were to go down; it was only a surmise of your own mind
ERSKINE 4451 You have not sought out for any employment since, have you 
ERSKINE 4453 Where did you live before you lived with this Mr. Kellerby
ERSKINE 4455 Where before that
ERSKINE 4457 How long is that ago
ERSKINE 4459 How Jong did you live with Mr. Smith, in Cheapside
ERSKINE 4461 “ And left him five years ago
ERSKINE 4463 For your health, I suppose 
ERSKINE 4465 Where do they live 
ERSKINE 4467 Who are your friends you went to see there
ERSKINE 4469 Whatis her name 
ERSKINE 4471 How long did you stay with her
ERSKINE 4473 That is eleven months out of five years, when you paid your affectionate respects to your aunt. What did you do when you came pack? Where did you go next
ERSKINE 4475 That cannot be, you know; for that is five years ago 
ERSKINE 4477 You know it is five years ago
ERSKINE 4479 You lived eighteen months with Mr. Smith; you went to your aunt’s, and staid eleven months; when you came back, after having paid this visit, and after you had lett Smith, where did you live before you went to Faulder’s 
ERSKINE 4481 Another aunt
ERSKINE 4483 Where is Old Bedlam 
ERSKINE 4485 Is her name Alexander 
ERSKINE 4487 How mg did you live with her
ERSKINE 4489 Did you live there up to the time; for if you do not tell me that, I shall ask you where you did live—did you live with your aunt in Old Bedlam after you came out of the country up to the time you went to Faulder’s? I do not want to hurry you
ERSKINE 4491 went to my aunt’s, in Old Bedlam, and was there till 1 went to Faulder’s. 
ERSKINE 4492 I am thrown out quite; you have changed the whole thing upon me at once—when you write your life youmust be alittle more correct, I will just take it down—how long is it ago since you lived with Smith 
ERSKINE 4494 What did you leave Smith for
ERSKINE 4496 Had some words—what might the words be, think you
ERSKINE 4498 You have an amazing good memory; you have repeated a whole speech a man made at a meeting; but you cannot remember the few words that passed between qo and your master, now try; I will sit down and give you time. 
ERSKINE 4501 Then you do not remember the words 
ERSKINE 4503 When you have words with a man, it means you had a quarrel—You know I did not ask ya what you said to your master, and what e said to you; but what was the quarrel about—You must have a strange memory for a witness—who is to repeat a whole speech, if you do not remember for what you left your master—I wish you would look at those gentlemen ; they are very good looking-men. 
ERSKINE 4505 I am exceedingly glad to be corrected, and I shall esteem it no ioterruption whenever you do; because I am so used to this work that nothing can put me out—Do try and recollect what was the nature of the quarrel between you and Mr. Smith. 
ERSKINE 4509 I am entitled to have the benefit of this gentleman’s deportment, If your lordship will just indulge me for one moment. ! 
ERSKINE 4511 He has certainly had fair play. I wish we had as fair play; but that is not addressed to the Court. 
ERSKINE 4513 I say the prisoner has aright to fair play. 
ERSKINE 4515 But I am not to be called to order by the bar—Do youordo you not recollect what was the cause of your quarrel with your master 
ERSKINE 4517 What was the nature of the quarrel between you and the shopman, which led to the quarrel between you and your master ; because now you see you begin to recollect it 
ERSKINE 4519 People seldom begin to abuse one another without some reason 
ERSKINE 4521 Who was he 
ERSKINE 4523 What is his Christian name
ERSKINE 4525 his credit, or, as may be said in many cases, his temper; by which a plain and honest witness may be often confounded, and an irritable one led into indiscretions as unbecoming the Court as injurious to the cause of truth and of justice. Fair and honest witnesses
ERSKINE 4527 “ Itis this dicence in the English mode of cross-examination that has given rise to a doubt with some late writers on the English law, whether examinations in open court are in every instance preferable to private examinations, taken down in writing. See Evans’s Appendix to Pothier’s Treatise on Obligations, p. 236. Burnett on the Criminal Peake's Law of Evidence, ch. 3, s. 3, pp. 143 
ERSKINE 4528 Do you know where he went to afterwards
ERSKINE 4530 Have you ever seen Mr. Smith since you parted from him 
ERSKINE 4532 From Mr. Smith’s did you go to your aunt? You told me before that you had gone to your aunt’s, and returned from near Salisbury to Mr.Smith’s
ERSKINE 4534 You are sure it was in the latter end of the year 1793, that you heard all this about pikes 
ERSKINE 4536 What did you hear at the third meeting you went to
ERSKINE 4538 How long did you stay the third time
ERSKINE 4540 At what time did you go in the evening 
ERSKINE 4542 And staid till between eleven and twelve. —Yes. 
ERSKINE 4543 Do you recollect any thing said that third night 
ERSKINE 4545 What were you doing between the hours of eight and twelve at night
ERSKINE 4547 How many members were admitted that night 
ERSKINE 4549 ut there were some members admitted 
ERSKINE 4551 But I take for granted, that a great deal must be said between eight and nine, and eleven and twelve; because you know you went there in order to inform 
ERSKINE 4553 In order to inform, you have told us before —Then did you hear nothing at all
ERSKINE 4555 You went the fourth night, did you
ERSKINE 4557 What time in the evening did you go the fourth night 
ERSKINE 4559 And since you went in order to collect information, you staid, I suppose, till the party broke up. What was said that night 
ERSKINE 4561 Not a syllable
ERSKINE 4563 What time did you go the fifth night
ERSKINE 4565 And staid, of course, till it broke up 
ERSKINE 4567 Can ‘you recollect nothing that passed that fifth night 
ERSKINE 4569 What did you hear said that night by Yorke about the pikes
ERSKINE 4571 So that is all that you can remember in all the times that you attended 
ERSKINE 4624 This cannot possibly be evidence. 
ERSKINE 4746 We wish to have the ectieles read. 
ERSKINE 4747 “ Rules, Articles, &c. 
ERSKINE 4748 “ Ant. I. This association shall consist of one captain, one lieutenant, one ensign, 3 serjeant-major, three serjeants, three corporals, sixty rank and file, two drummers and fifers. 
ERSKINE 4749 “ Ant. II. Every person proposed and recommended, shall be named a week previous to his introduction, and well known by the member who recommends him. 
ERSKINE 4750 “ Art. III, Every member shall pay weekly into the hands of the treasurer (chosen out of the association) the sum of one shilling and sixpence, for purelasing arms, and accoutrements, as likewise towards defraying the incidental expense of this association, the subscriptions to be lessened when the above artieles are purchased. 
ERSKINE 4751 “ Aer. IV. The officers are all elective quarterly, as likewise a committee of seven members, the committee to regulate the internal affairs of the association; the ser} major and treasurer are not elective quarterly, but hold their office during pleashre of the members of this association, and at all times while in office, are members of the committee, over and above the seven members baHotted out of the association. “ Art. V. As the protection of public end private property is the object of this association, we hereby engage to step forth in case of fire, tumults, commotions, and riots, but not beyond the parish of St. Mary’s, Lambeth, 
ERSKINE 4752 “ Ant. VI. The uniforms of this associatioa, is a blue coat lapelled, scarlet collar, plain gilt buttons, white waistcoat, nankeen br. white stockings, half-black gaters, black stock, cocked hat and cuckade. 
ERSKINE 4753 “ Ant. VII. As the further object of this association, is the encouragement of its members in their different callings, it is therefore resolved, that such articles as are used by this association, to be had of its members, and when two or more members are of one profession to be equally divided. 
ERSKINE 4754 “ Ant. VIII. That swords, eppulets, sashes, and swordknots; be fiirchinesd| out of the stock of the Association, for the use of officers, 
ERSKINE 4755 “ Art. IX, That this Association have four Quarterly Meetings, viz. the first Monday after the four regular quarters; when the Offcers and Committee, are to be chosen: Audit the Treasurer's accounts, and other necessary business, 
ERSKINE 4756 “ Art. X, As no Armourer is to be appointed to this Association, every member shall kecp his own Piece, and Accoutrements clean. 
ERSKINE 4757 “ Arr. XI. That the pee of Meeting be in or near the Town of beth, in as commodious a place as can be procured. 
ERSKINE 4758 “ Art. XII. That every member clear the book, once a month, on neglect to fine one Shilling, all fines whatever to be added to the joint stock of this Association, 
ERSKINE 4759 “XIII. That Mr. Francklow is appeioted Serjeant- Major of this Association, as hkewise Treasurer and Secretary, whose duty is to instruct the members in the use of Arms, and military discipline, for which two-pencea week be paid him from each member (out of the subscription) while learning, to attend twice a 
ERSKINE 4760 Wednesday and Friday Evenings from seven to ten o'clock. As Treasurer he is to receive all subscriptions, and account with the Committee every fort-night, in order that they may issue such paymenisfor Articles received in this Association ; as Secretary, to keep the Muster-Rell and Book of this Association. 
ERSKINE 4761 “ The above Awricres, dc. were agrecd to, and signed by the following Members; JOHN PHILIP FRANCKLOW. “ JOHN SHELMERDINE. JOHN WILLIAMSON. “ JAMES DAVISON. “ SAMURL WILLLAMS. “ Nov. 16th, 2793. 
ERSKINE 4762 Mr. pe podem a nig wet Aas the purpose of eteppi th in case of fire, tuotis, cananctone and riots, but they were not to iM beyond the parish of St. Mary’s Lambeth. I asked you, before, whether any of those members, except Franklow that you knew, were inhabitants of the parish of al a said not 
ERSKINE 4764 How came e's house, in Turnstile, Lincoln’s-Inn-Fields, to be a ae fixed upon for exercising the members of the Loyal Lambeth Association, who were not to go beyond the bounds of their own parish 
ERSKINE 4766 Had you, at the time that you were supplying arms to this society, any conversations with them upon the subject of parliamentary reform: or did you hear any conversation among them respecting that 
ERSKINE 4768 their meetings. 
ERSKINE 4769 What was the subject of those conversations, or did those conversations respect at al! the end of their association
ERSKINE 4771 Can you tell the substance of any conversa tian they had upon the subject of parliementary reform
ERSKINE 4773 I ask you from the conversation of the members of that association that met. 
GIBBS 4774 I object to this—I understand the Court has determined that any thing that any member of the Corresponding Society says, is evidence against Mr. Hardy: but I do bot apprehend that the Ceurt has determined that every thing said by the members of the Lambeth Association, whom the witness does not know to be members of the Corresponding Society is evidence; consequently the question put, of what this man has heard from any member of the Lambeth Association, um ee oon Sex tte he Beare sca some of se who compose Fre} ing Soci insceenaeice, aiid 
GIBBS 4787 He did so: but I do not apprehend that if any gentleman who wears a particular uniform had appeared up stairs at dinner with your lordships to-day, that your lordships would be affected by any thing which a member of the society, to which that gentleman belonged had said. I might put the case of some gentlemen who did dine with your lordships, who are engaged in societies that wear uniforms: suppose one of those gentlemen had happened to dine with your lordships up stairs in that uniform, by the argument the solicitor general uses, because he appeared in his uniform, at dinner with your lordships, therefore, what any one said who belonged to the society, distinguished by that uniform would be evidence against all those who h dined with that gentleman. It seems to me that is an argument which cannot stand for a moment 
GIBBS 4788 Another way in which it has been put by my learned friend, Mr. Bower, is thise—That because Mr. Franklow being a member of the London ‘Corresponding Society, presided at another society, fur a purpose that is not connected with the London Corresponding Society therefore, first his declarations are evidence against Hardy, because he is one of those sands of whom the London Corresponding Society consists; and next, if he constitutes another society consisting of ten thousand men, every thing, that every one of those ten thousand men, who are constituted by one man that belongs to the two or three thousand of which the London Corresponding Society consists, is to be evidence against Mr. Hardy. It does not seem to me that there is any principle of law upon which any of those men who happened to belong to a society, instituted by Franklow, he happening to be a member of the society of which Hardy was a member, that the declarations of any one of those men so sub-connected with the society, no, not even upon oath, can be evidence against Hardy, to prove either that he has compassed the king’s death, or done any of the acts stated in this indictment, or that those acts were. pointed to that design sgainet the king’s life. Perhaps, I am less distinct in arguing the case before your lordship, because, I confess, I do not feel any principle upon which this can be contended to be evidence. 
GIBBS 4793 I could understand how Franklow’s declarations were evidence, but the point that puzzled me was, I could not understand how the declarations of those men who were only concerned with Franklow in his association, could be evidence, because it seems to me upon the same principle that the declarations of people sub-employed by them, and of others sub-employed by them, and so oa, would be evidence. 
GIBBS 4813 It seems to me that it is not open to Mr. Bower to fix the prisoner with what the witness may fancy he has collected froma conversations that he has heard at this society, without mentioning who those persons were from whom he heard it: for how am I to contradict it? 
ERSKINE 4836 The Court has ruled frequently in the course of the trial—and it would be indecent in us to argue it again, that any thing said or done by any member of the London Corresponding Society, or any members of any other society with which that society is implicated, will be evidence to prove the first branch of the conspiracy, and that they must go on to build upon that evidence that which is necessary afterwards to affect the prisoner. Therefore I submit to your lordships what I take to be the distinction here--- Mr. Bower was going on to prove that all the members of the Lambeth Association were members of the Corresponding Society, which would put an end to our objection; or supposing they were not all members, if the witness had said that what was done came from a member of the Corresponding Society, then I apprehend it will be evidence also; but your lordship has truly said, that Mr. Hardy does not seem to be more connected with Williams, the serjeant major of this particular body, than merely in the course of trade he asked him if he knew any body that wanted guns, he said he did not; this man made shoes for him; in the course of a fort. night or three weeksafter herecommended him to Franklow, but non constat that at the time he recommended him to Franklow, he knew the articles of his association, he only knew Franklow in his character of a member of the London Corresponding Society; thereforeIconceive it would be going beyond the .rule your lordship has estal lished, for a. man to state what he heard in the presence of Franklow, who might be attending to somethin else, or who might not approve of what was said, and which might have nothing to do with his institution ; it would be too much fo affect the prisoner, particalarly at so late a period of the cause (though I do not mean to say that would make any specific difference) with a declaration so very inconsistent with what your lordship has already heard upon this subject; it therefore seems to me an object of greater suspicion, and more our duty to guard against. The witness has said he cannot specify who the person was, and if they were not all members of the London Corresponding Society, nun constat, that the man was a member of the London Corresponding 
ERSKINE 4837 Society. 
ERSKINE 4857 To what was said, but not what he collected. 
ERSKINE 4965 Who was the member 
ERSKINE 4967 I submit it is necessary it should appear, that he was a member of the Corresponding Society. 
ERSKINE 5013  Soa member said, he would not care for blowing any spy's brains out
ERSKINE 5015 Were not you alittle afraid when you heard that 
ERSKINE 5017 ! you were a spy, were you
ERSKINE 5019 What was that paper you had in your hand, a little while ago
ERSKINE 5021 lam glad you have it; we will go to work with dates; I like a paper of dates; you will be bound by it
ERSKINE 5023 On what night was it, and at what place, that there wa3a rejoicing, that there was a defeat of the British troops, and when one of the incmbers said, that one of the king’s messengers had been killed ; and, if ithad been his own father, he should have been giad, if he had met with the same fate
ERSKINE 5025 None of your thinking, when you have the paper in your hands !—I have not a memorandum of the date. 
ERSKINE 5026 What date have you taken, good Mr. Spy
ERSKINE 5030 I am sure I shall always pay that attention to the Court which is due from me; but I am not to be told by the attorney general, how I am to examine a witness. 
ERSKINE 5032 I am much obliged to his lordship for the admonition he gave me, I heard his lordship, and I beard you, which I should not have heard. 
ERSKINE 5033 “What was the date when you say that passed, that there was a defeat of the British troops, and somebody said, that there was a messenger killed in the country, and he should ‘have been glad if it had been his own father
ERSKINE 5035 When was it you heard that conversation, from whence you collected, that the reform of parliament was to be carried at the pvint of the bayonet
ERSKINE 5037 Have you got any date for that
ERSKINE 5039 At what place 
ERSKINE 5041 Where is Day’s
ERSKINE 5043 How many persons were present at that time
ERSKINE 5045 You must have expected it
ERSKINE 5047 I wish to know from you, whether, from the conversation that you are now stating, of obtaining a reform of parliament, at the point of the bayonet, whether you collected this from one person, or the general conversation of the whole people
ERSKINE 5049 And you collected, that it was their intention so to carry it
ERSKINE 5051 And you fix that conversation to the 2nd of April, at this place 
ERSKINE 5053 What was that you said about a bet 
ERSKINE 5055 And you lost your bet 
ERSKINE 5057 You made yourself a member of the Corresponding Society 
ERSKINE 5059 And took those notes
ERSKINE 5061 Why did you take those notes 
ERSKINE 5063 How long after you had lost your bet 
ERSKINE 5065 Should you know the faces of any of those persons
ERSKINE 5067 Should you know more of them
ERSKINE 5069 Was Franklow there 
ERSKINE 5071 Do you know any body else that was there
ERSKINE 5312  What is your christian name 
ERSKINE 5314 Edward Gosling 
ERSKINE 5316 Are your father and mother living 
ERSKINE 5318 What are you by employment or trade 
ERSKINE 5320 I am not calling you to an account for any general employment, if you are an honest man in the execution of it; do you mean employed in this business? — Yes, and in writing too; I was employed before this business by Mr. Colquhoun, in writing. 
ERSKINE 5321 What sort of writing
ERSKINE 5323 Mr. Colquhoun is an attorney, is he
ERSKINE 5325 When did you begin writing for him
ERSKINE 5327 What way of life had you been in before that 
ERSKINE 5329 Were you a dealer in naval stores; I am not asking any, question you can object to; were you a dealer in naval stores
ERSKINE 5331 I should have no right to ask that question
ERSKINE 5333 Then, perhaps, you have never said to any body the direct contrary of what you are saying now to me
ERSKINE 5335 Jet me have the print if I told him I was with a magistrate, I told him I dealt in naval stores. 
ERSKINE 5336 Did you never say to any body that you dealt in naval stores, and that you should think no more of cheating the king than of illotineing him 
ERSKINE 5338 will swear positively, I never mentioned the word guillotineing the king. 
ERSKINE 5339 Did you never say to any body, upon your oath, that you lived by smuggling, and cheatine the king in his stores 
ERSKINE 5341 Have you always gone by the name of Gosling
ERSKINE 5344 I have treated you with civility Iam sure.—Did you ever go by the name of Douglas 
ERSKINE 5346 When did you first assume the name of Douglas
ERSKINE 5348 How long did you continue the name of Douglas? 
ERSKINE 5349 Gosling
ERSKINE 5398 Who 13 Mr. Worship
ERSKINE 5400 Did you never make use of the expressions that I asked you to before, that you cared no more for cheating the king than the expression I stated before 
ERSKINE 5402 Task you, upon your oath, whether many of these expressions, which you have been stating to-night, you did not make use of yourself, and endeavour to excite those people to do the things that you have been relating of them, and were reprimanded by them repeatedly for it 
ERSKINE 5404 Upon no one occasion 
ERSKINE 5406 Lask you, upon your oath, whether you were not in the constant course of using inflammatory expressions, which I will not repeat, going from one society to another using inflammatory expressions to excite those people to say to you things which you wanted them to say 
ERSKINE 5408 It was natural you should say nothing if you went with a view of discovering that which was dangerous to the public.—But I ask you, whether you did not go about from place to place using the most ‘inflammatory expressions
ERSKINE 5410 You say that positively 
ERSKINE 5412 That you never did use inflammatory expressions of the sort that you have been mentioning
ERSKINE 5414 Dol understand you to swear positively then, that you never made use ofany inflammatory expressions, when I put you in mind of some of them now.—Why do not the society learn the use of arms, it would be of great use, there isnothing to be done without arms 
ERSKINE 5416 Nor ever made use of any expression of that nature, to excite any of the people at the socicties to believe you would do mischief of any sort 
ERSKINE 5418 Now go to your notes, and tell me what days, apd at what places you attended in the prosecution of that which was extremely laudable, if it was honest, the times and the places.—But before I trouble you with that, do you knowa Mrs. Coleman
ERSKINE 5420 Look across to the jury 
ERSKINE 5422 ae you ever know a Mrs. Coleman 
ERSKINE 5424 Had you any dealings of any sort with her 
ERSKINE 5426 Had you no dealingsof any other sort? Tam not putting a question of any immoral nature f—Certainly I had business, she rented a shop of me. 
ERSKINE 5427 Is that all
ERSKINE 5429 Did she leave any will 
ERSKINE 5431 Whom did she leave her property to
ERSKINE 5433 Who made the will
ERSKINE 5435 You were very ill used about that business, in which you ,had done nothing but that which was right? 
ERSKINE 5436 Gosling
ERSKINE 5438 I mean you got into some dispute and trouble about it
ERSKINE 5440 There was no complaint made against you ot any sort
ERSKINE 5442 Ido not ask whether there was any just cause of complaint, but was there any com plaint made against you by any body upon the subject 
ERSKINE 5444 Do not understand me to be doing so improper a thing as to be imputing any crime to you, and to ask you to reveal it; far from it, I only ask whether any body was wicked enough to make any complaint of your conduct in that case 
ERSKINE 5446 Will you swear there was none, upon your oath, was there no complaint made against you upon the subject of this will
ERSKINE 5448 Upon your oath, was there not a complaint made against you, to your knowledge, for fa bricating this will
ERSKINE 5450 Will you swear that 
ERSKINE 5452 Who was Mr. Leech
ERSKINE 5454 In what trade 
ERSKINE 5456 And that woman died at your house and left her property to him
ERSKINE 5458 Tasked you to whom she left her property
ERSKINE 5460 Was that James Leech your rival oppo site
ERSKINE 5462 Who was that James Leech to whom this woman left this money 
ERSKINE 5464 Who was Burroughs, who was that otha person 
ERSKINE 5466 hat connexion had you with the woman
ERSKINE 5468 How long had she lodged at your house 
ERSKINE 5470 A year
ERSKINE 5472 Will you swear that she lived six months with you 
ERSKINE 5474 Three months 
ERSKINE 5476 Four months 
ERSKINE 5478 Was the will made by an attorney 
ERSKINE 5480 By yourself 
ERSKINE 5482 Am I to take you that you mean to swear now, that no complaint was made against yoa as having forged that will
ERSKINE 5484 Will you swear positively, you never have been charged with it; a man that is charged with a capital felony cannot forget it
ERSKINE 5486 od! Do you mean to swear that you do not remember whether you were charged with a capital felony or not 
ERSKINE 5488 Will you swear positively that no such charge was brought against you
ERSKINE 5492 I am asking you whether there was not acomplaint made, that you were charged in your own presence with having done it 
ERSKINE 5494 Amto understand that there was not a complaint made in your presence against you for having forged that will
ERSKINE 5496 Will not you go the length of swearing that nobody ever did do so
ERSKINE 5500 Whether any body ever charged you with it in your presence
ERSKINE 5502 Do you know a Mr. Coxi—Yes ; I know Mr. Cox, a cheesemonger. 
ERSKINE 5503 How long have you known him 
ERSKINE 5505 Dealt with him in what
ERSKINE 5507 cid the use of your family 
ERSKINE 5509 I thought you were a hair dresser; what! do you deal in hams 
ERSKINE 5511 Have vou never had any other sort of dealings with Mr. Cox, than that which any man has witha fair tradesman that bought hams of him in the ordinary course of business 
ERSKINE 5513 And you swear that, positively 
ERSKINE 5515 I do not stand here to make charges. 
ERSKINE 5516 Gosling
ERSKINE 5518 ‘Then the hams were of a bad quality, filled up with mortar and stones
ERSKINE 5520 Then Mr. Cox, the cheesemonger, seems to have cheated you 
ERSKINE 5522 Mr. Macnamara came in order to intimidate you from being a witness here ? 
ERSKINE 5524 I am sure he did not. 
ERSKINE 5526 Y ou will examine to it when I have done, I suppose? 
ERSKINE 5527 Am I to understand you to say, that you never dealt at all in stores, I do not mean to say dishonestly or improperly ? 
ERSKINE 5528 Gosling
ERSKINE 5530 Naval stores ship stores
ERSKINE 5532 What were the articles that you purchased
ERSKINE 5534 Did you never say, 1 do not ask you whether you did it, because I have no right to do that, ut you never said that you were a dealer in raw materials; that the person you spoke to, asked you to explain it; and whether in answer to that you said that you attended the sale of his majesty’s stores at the dock-yards, at Sheerness, and so on, that you were well acquainted with the store-keepers, and that you generally bought them at a fifth of their value, by feeing the store-keepers tocondemn them 
ERSKINE 5536 Why you had a great deal upon your hands you say you told him the same as (Mr. Worship ; you did not tell Mr. Worship that 
ERSKINE 5538 But did you tell Mr. Worship that the way you dealt was by feeing the store-kcepers to condemn them 
ERSKINE 5540 When you were reproved for that, did you not justify your conduct, and say that you had followed the practice for years, and thought it. no crime to cheat the king
ERSKINE 5542 Was it in the service of Mr. Colquhoun, that you bought that paper stuff and things? 
ERSKINE 5543 —I never bought any paper stuff belonging to his majesty in my life, upon my oath. 
ERSKINE 5544 But I ask you, were you both a dealer in Stores yourself honestly; and were you employed as an informer to prevent other poople ; 
ERSKINE 5545 eing dishonest
ERSKINE 5547 I do not comprehend you, explain to me what was the reason why you told Hillier you had been in the constant course of cheating government in that fashion
ERSKINE 5549 Is that an answer to my question? TI asked you why you told Mr. Hillier you were in the course of doing that which you have been now stating
ERSKINE 5551 Nor any thing to that effect 
ERSKINE 5553 Did you ever tell him that there were great quantities of copper conveyed out of the ducks, and the manner in which it is conveyed out
ERSKINE 5555 Whether you did not tell him the copper was conveyed out of the dock-yards in butterfirkins
ERSKINE 5557 iam asking you, whether you did not tell him you had been employed yourself in conreying away this euprets—I never told him that Twas employed; I wished to gain what information I could from him, and that was the sole purpose. 
ERSKINE 5558 Did you ever tell him that you were acqualnted with a woman who lived somewhere about Tooley-street, and that there were twelve hundred weight found upon ber pre“mises
ERSKINE 5560 Now I have nothing more to ask of you except the dates, which you will be so good as to give me with great correctness; what was the first time that you attended any of those societies 
ERSKINE 5562 I was at a meeting at Chalk Farm ; I became a member on the 15th. 
ERSKINE 5563 You never saw the prisoner atany of those meetings 
ERSKINE 5565 What part of the meeting were you in at Chalk Farm—were you in the room 
ERSKINE 5567 what day were you at any division meeting of the society 
ERSKINE 5569 At what place
ERSKINE 5571 What was the next time
ERSKINE 5573 I wish you to be correct 
ERSKINE 5575 But such papers as you have, that will furnish me with dates, let me have them
ERSKINE 5577 What number of persons were there at that time
ERSKINE 5579 You did not know their persons 
ERSKINE 5581 Be so good as to name them 
ERSKINE 5583 And about twenty-four or twenty-five sons ; now what was the next night 
ERSKINE 5585 Were Hillier and Bennett there 
ERSKINE 5587 How many persons might be present there
ERSKINE 5589 I understand you to say the conversations, you have heen relating, were not accidental ones, but that it was the general scope of the conversation almost every night 
ERSKINE 5591 When did you hear about arming 
ERSKINE 5593 What was the next night upon which you heard any of those abominable expressions which you have sworn to here 
ERSKINE 5595 On what night, and at what place was that horrible expression made use of concetning the king 
ERSKINE 5597 What was the date of that
ERSKINE 5599 Who were present
ERSKINE 5601 Are you eeraret to swear positively, that you heard those expressions which yeu have swot'n to
ERSKINE 5603 And you stick to that
ERSKINE 5605 ly sworn them, 
ERSKINE 5606 Where were you upon the 29th
ERSKINE 5608 Who were present at the, Hope
ERSKINE 5610 What number were there of each 
ERSKINE 5612 Were there any expressions about arming that night 
ERSKINE 5614 Was there any thing about arming for the of threatening the king, or overturning the government 
ERSKINE 5616 But was any particular purpose stated 
ERSKINE 5618 At what time, besides the two you have spoken of, did you hear the expressions that you have related 
ERSKINE 5620 What is his christian name 
ERSKINE 5622 What did Birks say to you 
ERSKINE 5624 Tt was an armed association of sixty people; but armed for those wicked purposes you have been talking of 
GIBBS 5680  Who was with you, when you found these papers 
GIBBS 5682 Who desired you to go
GIBBS 5684 When did you find them 
GIBBS 5686 I submit to your lordship, that, according to the rule iad down yesterday, the song is not evidence, being found after Mr. Hardy was taken up. 
GIBBS 5688 I wish it had; but I did not know it till I came to the cross-examination of the witness. 
GIBBS 5690 How do T Tide that this was jot: printed after the apprehension of Mr. 
GIBBS 5691 ly? 
GIBBS 5694 I only wish to have lordship’s opinion ; I do not mean to take up the time of the Court; it seems to me, that there is certainly the same objection to this paper, as to those which were offered before, of whatever date fey may be, unless they can prove, either that they were in the possession of the prisoner, or of some member of the London Corresponding Society, before he was apprehended, or that he put that date to them; the circumstance and bearing of the date certainly is not evidence: 
GIBBS 5696 Prove they existed in thesession of some member of the London Corresponding Society. 
GIBBS 5722 We do not mind what you always understood; relate what any body said. 
GIBBS 5727 Does your lordship think that this sort of examination ought to go on without mentioning the name of any person from whom it came? it is, your lordship sees, utterly impossible for us to have an opportunity of contradicting this kind of evidence. 
GIBBS 6122  Pray what are you
GIBBS 6124 Then you are a lawyer 
GIBBS 6126 Is conveyancing the only branch. of the profession that you have followed ? 
GIBBS 6127 Mr. Groves
GIBBS 6129 Are you an attorney 
GIBBS 6131 You may tell me whether you are an attorney or not
GIBBS 6133 Are you a solicitor. 
GIBBS 6134 Mr. Groves
GIBBS 6136 No,I did not mean in Chancery, you have been long enough in the law to know the meaning: of the word solicitor, are you a solicitor of any sort
GIBBS 6138 Where 
GIBBS 6140 Why then, you are solicitor at the Old Bailey 
GIBBS 6142 Could not you have said so at once; you understood perfectly well what I meant
GIBBS 6144 When I asked if you were a solicitor, and you asked if I meant in Chancery, I told you T did not mean in Chancery 
GIBBS 6146 And you really did not know the meaning of my question
GIBBS 6148 You had not the least idea that I meant to ask, if you had been an Old Bailey solicitor? It ne net occur to me. 
GIBBS 6149 Tt did not occur to you, upon my ag ou the question, that you had been an Ol Bailey solicitor 
GIBBS 6151 You really did not know but that I means to ask you whether you were a solicitor in Chancery 
GIBBS 6153 How came you to go then
GIBBS 6155 y whom ? 
GIBBS 6156 Mr. Groves
GIBBS 6158 Ifit be improper I will not askings but in the character of a spy 
GIBBS 6160 Mr. Groves
GIBBS 6168 Then where is the delicacy of at 
GIBBS 6170 I will not press the question farther than your lordship thinks I ought--T leave it to the discretion of the Court if it is thought not proper. 
GIBBS 6172 Then you were desired by a rson, high in office, to go to this place, how arose your connexion with that gentleman 
GIBBS 6174 What sort of connexion had you with him? 
GIBBS 6178 I dare say you would not. 
GIBBS 6182 Then trusting in you, he sent you to the Globe-tavern on the 20th of January, 1794 
GIBBS 6184 Then you never were at any of those meetcall it so, I will take it so. 
GIBBS 6185 If you were not there as a spy, take any title vou choose for yourself, and I will give you that. 
GIBBS 6187 I did not desire you to take any title in the sense that gentleman is using the term ; you object to the term spy, as I called you, and I bid you take any other naine. 
GIBBS 6189 I really did not feel that I was going atall out of the way in the cross-examination of a witness, in walling him by a name which suits his character, though he does not like it. 
GIBBS 6191 You went then (not to call you a spy) to these meetings in the character of a person who had nootherreason for going there, than that of picking up what information you could, and carrying it again to those employers, in whose conhilesiee you were 
GIBBS 6193 Then I must express your employment hy that periphrasis. You said there was a greut assembly there 
GIBBS 6195 There wasa considerable meeting you said, and universal suffrage and annual parliaments were talked of ? 
GIBBS 6196 Pt —Which meeting do you speak of? 
GIBBS 6197 I am speaking of the meeting to which you first went —There was a very large meeting, so much so that the floor broke down. 
GIBBS 6198 You have been giving an account of some conversation that passed there; cannot you recollect who the persons were that had that conversation
GIBBS 6200 You going there for the purpose of collecting evidence against individuals, and coming now to give evidence againstan individual, vou thought it not material to observe who the people were who then used this language— You, a gentleman used to practise at the Old Bailey, and meaning to give evidence afterwards against those persons, did not think it material to learn by whom these cunversations were held? 
GIBBS 6203 Send to Mr. Erskine, he is in the parlour. 
ERSKINE 6204 Will your lordship give me Jeave to say, it is the universal practice of the Court of King’s-bench, the first criminal court in this country, in which I have had the honour to practise for seventeen years, We are certainly permitted to go as far as this. I agree with your lordship in what you just now said (and it will be of no consequence whether I did or no, because your lordship must give the rule) but what I take my learned friend to have said to the witness, is this: you, sir, not Meaning itas an insult tothe witness, but you, sir, as a practiser at the Old Bailey, must know the necessity, if you go to any place to get evidence, of having proper materials for that evidence ; how do you account for not having done that? Ina cross-examination, counsel are not called upon to be so exact as in an original examination, You are permitted to lead a witness. 
GIBBS 6205 I desired Mr. Erskine to be sent for into court, as I wished to have the testimony of a gentleman who has practised in that court more than any man now present, that I was not departing from the practice which has obtained there, My end is now answered in desiring Mr. Erskine to come into court. 
ERSKINE 6206 I can appeal to one of the learned judges now upon the bench. I remeniber that when Mr. Garrow first came to the situation, which undoubtedly he fills with a great deal of ability, I ohjected to a question he put on a cross-examination, and when it turncd out that it was upon cross-examination, the Jaugh was turned against me, and I had nothing to say. 
ERSKINE 6209 Having done that yesterday, I immediately bowed to the admonition I received from my Lord Chief Justice. 
GIBBS 6212 My reason for sending for Mr. Erskine was because I knew it had been the practice, and I think I have observed it m the course of this cause on the other side. What Mr. Justice Buller has said, that it isa Practice that has gene on toa greater length than it ought, I hope, will be an excuse tor me, because I am more inexperienced in the profession than Mr. Erskine or Mr. Garrow. If that mode of examination prevails on one side, especially against a defendant. 
GIBBS 6214 Your lordship does not suI trust, than I sent for Mr. Erskine with any other view than I have mentioned, I coafess I feel myself sensibly mortified. 
GIBBS 6215 Lord Chief justice Eyre
GIBBS 6217 I think you told me thet you were a gentleman who practised at the Ud Bailey, 3 you now practise here, or have you lett off that practice 
GIBBS 6219 You now practise at the Old Bailey
GIBBS 6221 How happens that 
GIBBS 6223 Your reason for not having practised is, that no business has been brought to you, I presume 
GIBBS 6225 Did you or not think it necessary, at Meeting, to attend to the particular persoms from whom the conversation that you are now stating, proceeded 
GIBBS 6227 You did not endeavour to distinguish what was said by one man from what was said by ancther
GIBBS 6229 You say the language was universal sufand anoual parliaments 
GIBBS 6231 Who used it you cannot tell
GIBBS 6233 Tlow many people might there be there 
GIBBS 6235 You cannot recollect any one particular person who held this language you have been speakiug of 
GIBBS 6237 You were afterwards at Chalk-farm, I think you say 
GIBBS 6239 Tbere you went under the same employment, and for the same person 
GIBBS 6241 You seem to have fixed yourselfa good deal upon Mr. Thelwall 
GIBBS 6243 It was involuntary then
GIBBS 6245 You would rather have declined it !— No, I did not say that; that is going too far; he and I were standing at the door, in Storestreet, together, when there were not above ten or a dozen people there, and then the paper being stuck up, that the meeting would held at Chalk Farm, he said, “ come eng. 
GIBBS 6246 Was that the first time you had conversed with him
GIBBS 6248 Did he know who you were 
GIBBS 6250 He had no previous knowledge of you 
GIBBS 6252 Had ‘ae any introduction to him 
GIBBS 6254 You had yo previous knowledge of him, nor he of you, no introduction to him, no common friend who told each that he might trust the other 
GIBBS 6256 But all this that he said to you was voluntary
GIBBS 6258 I think you say that at Chalk-farm there was aclamour that spies were there 
GIBBS 6260 snd, I believe, I may add something further, now you have brought it tg my, recollection : 
GIBBS 6261 hesaid, it would give the minister the power of te ging of their proceedings and their num13, 
GIBBS 6262 You said so before. I believe you yourself made this cry against spies, did not you? you said you thought there were spies 
GIBBS 6263 Smong them
GIBBS 6265 Yes, yes, that was a scheme you had learned in your practice certainly; you were the person then who suggested that there were spics from the Treasury there 
GIBBS 6267 Did you say you knew him to be a spy
GIBBS 6269 Who was he
GIBBS 6271 And you seeing Mr. Walsh there, said, you thought he was a person employed by governiment
GIBBS 6273 Because Mr. Walsh came there with King and Constitution upon his buttons, you chose to say that you thought he was a spy, was that so
GIBBS 6275 Well, seeing him there with King and Constitution on his buttons, you chose to say that you thought he was a spy from the Treasury 
GIBBS 6277 Then do tell me how the fact is
GIBBS 6279 Did not you me hiey believed he was a spy
GIBBS 6281 Will you swear you did not say, that you believed he was a spy
GIBBS 6283 Then you do consider that the term spy, is to be applied to those employed by government
GIBBS 6285 No; itis your own interpretation of the words 
GIBBS 6287 Then you did say you thought he was a spy 
GIBBS 6289 tt wasafter that, that Mr. Thelwall said he was for admitting all spies 
GIBBS 6291 This was a very large mceting, was not it
GIBBS 6293 Had you no apprehension for your friend, Mr. Walsh, saying, you thought he was a spy, at such a mecting 
GIBBS 6295 He was nota man, I suppose, whom you wished to have torn to picccs 
GIBBS 6297 Were not you a little apprehensive of holding him out asa spy, a man youknew nothing ot
GIBBS 6299 But though you might be for letting spies, that were there, continue, I want to know why you pointed out a particular man as a spy 
GIBBS 6301 Did not you say you believed he was employed by government 
GIBBS 6303 Employed by government to be there
GIBBS 6305 But was not that your meaning
GIBBS 6307 Then why are you fencing with me
GIBBS 6309 You represented him to be a man sent there by government, in the same way as yourself
GIBBS 6311 What induced you to point out this man
GIBBS 6313 Did you believe him tobe so 
GIBBS 6315 I want to know whether you, going there, as what you call yourself, a spy, how you came to point out to the people, that were there, another person whom you also believed to be a spy
GIBBS 6317 With King and Constitution upon his buttons 
GIBBS 6319 What number of people do you think were there at this time 
GIBBS 6321 You say, that sitting down to eat some bread and cheese, there was something that you called little instruments taken out, and it turned out that these were French knives 
GIBBS 6323 I know they are very common things 
GIBBS 6325 You went to Mr. Green’s in Orange-street, you say 
GIBBS 6327 He told you he had sold two or three hundred of these, but told you to speak very low as the parlour-door was open, and his wife was a damned Aristocrat 
GIBBS 6329 You are positive to those particular words, that he said his wife was a damned Aristocrat
GIBBS 6331 What did you laugh at
GIBBS 6333 I think you told me you were at the dinner on ie 2d of May, at the Crown and Anchor? —165. 
GIBBS 6334 How many people might there be there
GIBBS 6336 You went there in the same character, I suppose 
GIBBS 6338 You say there was some piece of news brought, a newspaper brought in 
GIBBS 6340 You do not know whether there was any newspaper brought in
GIBBS 6342 Then at this meeting that you are speaking of, there were a number of very respectable gentlemen 
GIBBS 6344 How did you get there
GIBBS 6346 What number did this meeting consist of
GIBBS 6348 You are not sure, I think you say, who was in the chair 
GIBBS 6350 You must not presume to think 
GIBBS 6352 Whichever it was, I suppose he sat at the head of the table
GIBBS 6354 Then I think you say Mr. Tooke madea speech, in which he reflected upon the House of Commons 
GIBBS 6356 You say he called the House of Commons a sink of corruption 
GIBBS 6358 He spoke of there being a junction between the two parties 
GIBBS 6360 I do not want you to repeat any offensive expressions that he used against individuals, but I think in speaking against the hereditary nobility, he spoke generally of a particular person 
GIBBS 6362 I believe he spoke highly of the hereditary nobility of the country 
GIBBS 6364 He spoke highly of the hereditary nobility of the country as contra-distinguished from adventurers
GIBBS 6366 I believe he observed, likewise, that this hereditary nobility, of whom he spoke so high, had lost their influence in the state, by the introduction of adventurers
GIBBS 6368 By the introduction of those then who were not the hereditary nobility? —The new nobility. 
GIBBS 6369 He had before been declaiming against the House of Commons, certainly, using an imProper expression, however, calling them a sink of corruption 
GIBBS 6371 Did he not say, likewise, that those new nobility were introduced into the House of Lords by means of those people whose conduct he was finding fault with in the House of Commons 
GIBBS 6373 Did he not also speak highly of the office of the King in the Constitution 
GIBBS 6375 Did he not mention it as matter of complaint, that the king had lost his due weight In the constitution, by means of this corruption that he had been complaining of before 
GIBBS 6377 Did he hold out any thing as matter of complaint in the now existing constitution, except that there was a sort of people introduced into the House of Commons whom he disapproved of; and by their means likewise asort of persons introduced into the House of Peers, whom he disapproved of; and that they, acting together, restrained the due power of the crown 
GIBBS 6379 Mr. John Gurnell called again. 
GIBBS 6380 Where did you find that paper
GIBBS 6382 “ Tune, Vicar of Bray. “ e Why should we vainly waste our prime, “ Repeating our oppressions ? 
GIBBS 6383 “ Come rouse to arms, ’tis now the time o punish past transgressions. 
GIBBS 6384 is said that Kings can do no wrong; Their murd’rous deeds deny it ; 
GIBBS 6385 “ And since from us their pow’r has sprung, “ We have the right to try it. 
GIBBS 6386 “ Chorus, Come rouse to arms, &c, r, 
GIBBS 6387 “ The starving wretch, who steals for bread, “ But seldom meets compassion, 
GIBBS 6388 “ And shall a crown preserve the head of ad who a a nation c| pee laws we all despise; 
GIBBS 6389 “Sec Gallia’s bright example; 
GIBBS 6390 “ The glorious sight before our eyes, “ We'll on every tyrant trample, 
GIBBS 6391 “ Come rouse, &c. &c. 
GIBBS 6392 eT. 
GIBBS 6393 “ Proud bishops next we will translate “ Among priest-crafted martyrs : 
GIBBS 6394 “ The guillotine on Peers shall wait, And Knights we'll hang in garters ! 
GIBBS 6395 “ These Despots long have trod us down, And Judges are their engines; “ These wretched minions of a crown “ Demand a people’s vengeance. 
GIBBS 6396 “ Come rouse, &c. &c. 
GIBBS 6397 “IV. 
GIBBS 6398 “ Our Juries are a venal pack, “ See Justice topsy-turvy ; 
GIBBS 6399 “ On Freedom's cause they’ve turned a back, “ Of Englishmen unworthy: 
GIBBS 6400 “ The glorious work but once begun, “ We'll loan the Augean stable : 
GIBBS 6401 “ A moment lost, and we’re undone, “ Come, strike while we are able. 
GIBBS 6402 “ Come rouse, &c. &c. 
GIBBS 6403 “vy, he golden age will then revive ; “ Each man shall be a brother ; “In e and harmony we'll live, “ And share the world together,“" “ In virtue train’d, enlighten’d youth ¢¢ Will love each fellow creature ; “ And future ages read this truth, “ That man is good by nature.. Come rouse, &c. &c. 
ERSKINE 6404 If the jury will look at the back of it, they will see this song was sent in a letter to Mr. Hardy by somebody or other. 
ERSKINE 6415  Are you a Sheffield man 
ERSKINE 6417 ‘ot, did not you? ‘olbooth, in Edin 
ERSKINE 6418 Had you ever seen any knife of this description 
ERSKINE 6420 Had any body else a knife of this sort — No. 
ERSKINE 6421 Was any thing said about it at this time 
ERSKINE 6423 Was it concealed 
ERSKINE 6425 Then Margarot did not make any secret of this knife 
ERSKINE 6427 How many peuple were present in all
ERSKINE 6429 Did it strike you at the time that there was any thing wrong in it
ERSKINE 6431 Publicly 
ERSKINE 6433 Are you a cutler
ERSKINE 6435  Was this at the time the Convention was holding at Edinburgh 
ERSKINE 6437 And he ate his dinner with it
ERSKINE 6589 You wrote this down at the time 
ERSKINE 6678 What speech 
ERSKINE 6680 Upon what occasion 
ERSKINE 6693 Have you any note of that last observation—who made the last observation
ERSKINE 6695 Was the prisoner present
ERSKINE 6723 Repeat that 
ERSKINE 6781 Do you mean answered in writing 
ERSKINE 6783 -without being shown to the delegates, and after he had wrote them, when lic came to the meeting of delegates he reported that he hhad wrote such a letter, and he gave the heads of such letter. He said to that society, but you are not explicit, and he requested that ee 
ERSKINE 6784 they would be more particular; your concurrence will assist us, but we want to know how far you mean to po in the design ; then a remark was made that we are very apprehensive of creating a breach between them, as is the case between them and the Constitutional Society; there was a good deal of conversation in consequence of that letter, that the Society of the Friends of the People did not go so far in their idea as the London Corresponding Speiety and the Constitutional Society did, for-all along it was held as an invariable idea that eventually it must come to a struggle. 
ERSKINE 6809 Have you any note of this
ERSKINE 6930 Do you mean to say that uu recollect there was not
ERSKINE 6932 Is that in your note No; Iam going to tell you my recollection. He said he would get a thousand for the London Corresponding Society ; but I have no minute of that; if you mean to put that down as that the thanks of the committee be given to Mr. Wharton for his motion and speech. 
ERSKINE 6933 Mr. Wharton the member of parliament
ERSKINE 6949 Read that ‘again
GIBBS 6994 Let us understand that you have no memorandum of this 
ERSKINE 7018 Let me take that down in your own words; there seems a sort of instruction from the delegates requesting them to visit all the societies in Scotland ? 
ERSKINE 7024 It must have been something, he says, but we have not heard what it must have been
ERSKINE 7028 There seemed to be a sort of instruction, gunered from a delegate, who collected it from the committee of delegates, I thought it was the Norwich letter first, but looking at At again, I rather conceive—what do you conceive ? 
ERSKINE 7029 Lynam
GIBBS 7041 Have not you some notes you have gone through 
GIBBS 7043 I desire to look at them? 
GIBBS 7044 The Witness delivers them to Mr. Gibbs, saying,—I presume you will give them me again. 
GIBBS 7045 What reason have you, sir, to suppose that I will not give them to you apes Te you mix them, it may be impossible for me to arrange them again. 
GIBBS 7046 You have given me these papers, mark them 1, 2, 3, 4. 
ERSKINE 7059 Read that again
ERSKINE 7061 At which meeting I believe the prisoner was not present, was he
ERSKINE 7063 What passed at the meeting ? if you find any thing to enable you to say that the prisoner was there, we will take it down; if not, we will take it that he was not there
ERSKINE 7065 One o'clock, on what day 
ERSKINE 7067 Did you see Wm. Moffatt —Wm. Moffatt, it was said was a delegate of the convention at Edinburgh “ Agreed, that tickets for the dinner should be five shillings, those that dined were to pay five and sixpence, and those that did not dine, paid six-pence for those tickets. 
ERSKINE 7068 Have you any minute of any sub-comanittee 
ERSKINE 7070 Who were to be the sub-committee for the ses of Wrawing up this letter, and discussing his conduct
ERSKINE 7085 When was it that you were reported to be a spy, and were tried
ERSKINE 7087 Mr. Bower—Now come 5 the 20th of January; were you present at the meeting at the Globe-taveth, apa the 20th ef January
ERSKINE 7089 What time did you go to the Globe-tavern that day 
ERSKINE 7091 In consequence of that, I suppose, they did not stay in the room; after the floor gave way, where did they go next
ERSKINE 7093 Were you there at any time in the afternoon 
ERSKINE 7095 After the floor of that room had given way, and it was necessary therefore, that they should adjourn, and they had got into the room above stairs, where did the chairman, if there was any, place himself; what was the situation of the chairman
ERSKINE 7097 A sort of balcony, oF gallery 
ERSKINE 7099 Moved as a resolution, do eoner was there likewisc, but he did not standyou mean? 
GIBBS 7131 this was a meeting, not composed wholly of the members of the Corresponding Society. 
GIBBS 7133 But he is speaking of conversation that passed from people there, whom jhe cannot name. 
ERSKINE 7192  Mr. Erskine.—I have very little to trouble you with, for Mr. Bower has very kindly put the questions to you which I was disposed to put; I think you say you are in the commission line
ERSKINE 7194 At this moment are you 
ERSKINE 7196 How long is it since you were in this commission line
ERSKINE 7198 I thought you said a moment ago, not now —I have aaanority to sell by commission from different people, but Ido not keep, or have any stock left with meby any manufacturer at the present moment. 
ERSKINE 7199 I should think you have hardly leisure to concern yourself with those sort of transactions, have you
ERSKINE 7201 How long is it since you first conceived this plan,—it certainly is a reputable one, and I don’t find fault with it; how long is it since you set yourself to this inquiry
ERSKINE 7203 Taking orders for captains and mates, and so on, ina small degree
ERSKINE 7205 How long is it since you did any business of that sort 
ERSKINE 7207 And the season before, and so on, for the last seven years
ERSKINE 7209 You were an ironmonger originally !—Yes ; I was brought up to that. 
ERSKINE 7210 Where might your shop be 
ERSKINE 7212 Lm keepa shop open there now of course 
ERSKINE 7214 You do
ERSKINE 7216 You have always kept your shop open then notwithstandiag this collateral business at the East-India house, in the commission line 
ERSKINE 7218 You were very much alarmed for the safety of the constitution of the country upon reading a paper I think that your landlord had shown you
ERSKINE 7220 spauld you know that paper if you saw it
ERSKINE 7222 It isthe “ Resolutions I believe
ERSKINE 7226 [showing a printed paper to the witness] is that the paper
ERSKINE 7228 You were alarmed, and immediately said to your landlord, that this was a society which would bring on the destruction of this constitution, and of course, asa good subject, you immediately set yourself to inquire into it, and to become a member for that purpose 
ERSKINE 7230 I need not ask you, because it follows of course, that in order to on that plan, it was necessary that you shopld seem to think as they did
ERSKINE 7232 You were elected a delegate 
ERSKINE 7234 And you contiaued a delegate until the 48th of June, 1793 
ERSKINE 7236 Then you fell under suspicion, you were oo and were acquitted by a majority 
ERSKINE 7238 And pray, sir, if I might so far inquire into the forms-of your trial, was the trial upon evidence, or were you acquitted upon any declaration of your own
ERSKINE 7240 Then being honourably acquitted, you continued to attend the society regularly? I was discontinued as 4 delegate; I believe I served out for that quarter, but in that month I went down into Staffordshire, and into York-shire, upon business, upon an order that I had from America. 
ERSKINE 7241 At what time did you first communicate to any magistrate that you were in the course of this inquiry, and whether you furnished them, or any particular magistrate, from time to time, with the notes you have been reading in court 
ERSKINE 7243 Iam not asking you what you informed a friend—It is necessary I should state it; I should be sorry for saying any thing that is wrong, and I wish the world at large should know my reason for doing it ; I did not do it of myselt, but by advice ; it was a gentleman that I had received friendship from at the west end of the town; he recommended me by all means to make a report of it; I did make a report of it, and have done. 
ERSKINE 7244 y And you have done from time to time
ERSKINE 7246 When was the first of those reports made? I believe the first report that I made must be in the month of October, 1792. 
ERSKINE 7247 ‘I shall not at present ask you who that person was, and whether the report you made was to any person entrusted with any public station or merely to a private friend, to any person invested with magistracy so as to act upon it
ERSKINE 7249 If you had told me that it was any body vested with any public magistracy, 1 would not have asked, but having said it is nota person in that situation, Lask to whom it was 
ERSKINE 7251 I wish then to repeat my question 
ERSKINE 7253 Did you hear my question 
ERSKINE 7255 Then surely you could not consider that as an answer if you did; I put this questioa— was the person to whom you communicated your reports in the month of October 1799, 3 magistrate of any species or description, from a justice of the peace to a secretary of state? 
ERSKINE 7256 Lynam
ERSKINE 7260 Then to whom was it ? 
ERSKINE 7262 I am surprised at this ob. jection; is this man to be let loose for seven hours with written papers, and am I not to be permitted to try bie credit? when he says that in the month of October, 179a, he informed a person of these transactions, am T not to be permitted to ask him who the person is to whom he made those reports? if he answers it was to such an individual, may I not call that individual in order to show peradventure, that these reports had no existence at that time, or that he did not show them to the person named? I shall be perfectly satisfied with whatever judgment the Court please to pronounce upon this occasion, but I certainly think it my duty to insist upen the question. 
ERSKINE 7269 Was it any servant—————whe interpose in situations of this kind, the 
ERSKINE 7272 No. 
GIBBS 7275 I think he said before that, “ I consulted with a friend who recommended it to me. 
ERSKINE 7277 The manifestation of innocence is as great a principle in the administration of justice as the punishment of crimes. 
ERSKINE 7279 I will go back again, with the permission of the Court, in my examination. You told me that in the month of October, 1792, you made a report; by making a report, do yuu mean that you showed that book to any body in November, 1792, from which you have been now reading
ERSKINE 7281 You were advised by a triend, to whom, no doubt, you had communicated what you knew, to make that communication to a person whom that friend recommended ? —Just so. 
ERSKINE 7282 Was that friend, who advised you to make that representation, a magistrate '—No. 
ERSKINE 7283 Then who was that friend? 
ERSKINE 7285 My question is not—who the person is to whom his friend recommended him to make the’ communication, because he has said that the ee he went to, by the recommendation of his friend, was a channel from whence government was likely to be informed; therefore I did not mean to put any question in the teeth of what the Court have resolved: but I have only this to say, that I was not present in the morning when your lordships determined it. M juestion now is, who was the friend (which riend was not a magistrate) who did advise the witness to make the communication to “Lord Chief Soatce Fagre-tF the pein ief Justice If the princi be right, I am of opinion it exteaile to tet Gone because the disclosing who the iend was that advised him to go to a magistrate, is a thing which puts-that friend-in a situation into which he ought not to be put, and into which it is inconvenient to general justice that he should be put. 
ERSKINE 7286 Supposing, for instance, that T were in possession of evidence, .but which I could not pocetly proteas to contradict this witness, that he made no such communication to any living being at that time; that this is all an invention and fabrication (I state it only for augument’s sake, which I have a right to do), baw aki yeenble I should do it, if I cannot allo to extract from the witness who the person was to whom he made the communication, and who advised him to give information to some other person? It will be asked, is it an honourable thine? Is it to be ai that, in this country, law and the liberty of the suede I trust, that the law and the liberty of the subject will always go together, and I hope in that the time will never arrive when the huzzas of popularity shall be against the vernment and administration, but that government and administration shall be so conducted as to carry along with them those huzzas of popularity which always attend s government well administered—if that be so, all I want to know is, that which can expose no man to contumely, namely, that he has advised a person, who tells him that he has discovered something, which, erroneously or otherwise, he conceives to be a conspiracy against the public, and, he says, go to a magistrate 
ERSKINE 7287 Suppose I were to advise any man who told me he had discovered something which he thought the public were interested im knowing; I be id say, Iam bert Tam no magistrate, I advise you to go to the secretary of state, and tell it; should I think I was at all brought in question for having given an advice i could stand to in the face of the whole world? how then can the public be affected by it, if I was to go on to ask him afterwards, who is that friend to whom you made that communication ? Ifit were not for what the Court has already pronounced, I should say, that the same argument will even go farther, namely, that if I were to call upon the man to whom he made the communication, I could not extract from that man any thing he said, but I could ask that man, did the witness make the communication to you? Su the witness says, I communicated this in the month of November, 1792, to Mr. White, the solicitor of the treasury, should not I have a right to ask the solicitor of the treasury, whether that fact were true or no? I could not go on to ask Mr. White what he did communicate to him, but I could ask him, whether, in point of fact, he did communicate it to him? And if he were to say, I never saw the man in the month of November, 1792, at all; I got the communication from another channel ; I never saw his face till I saw him in this court, would not that shake the credit of the witness with any man of understanding? I apprehend it would. 
ERSKINE 7288 It seems to me, therefore, with the greatest submission to the court, that the public is guarded by that distinction; and, in the course of the discharge of my duty at the bar, I hope I shall so distinguish the cases, that, in preserving the lives and liberties of those who are to be tried, the law and constitution of the country may thrive along with them ; and they never can thrive unless they thrive together. I think there is wholesome justice init. All 1 propose to ask this witness is the first question ; L cannot ask the second, because I will not attempt to ask what the Court has decided must not be asked ; I submit he must state the name of the person to whom he communicated it; then have I not a right to subpcena that person? I will then ask, when did you tell it him? at what place? who were present? Then I ask that person, is it true? But if I were to go on farther, and ask, what did he communicate? in order to try the truth of this writing, there your lordships would stop me. I apprehend that is the distinction. 
GIBBS 7289 I submit to your lordships whether this is not the distinction: That where an informer in the Exchequer proceeds upon an information of facts—communicated by another person, that he should not be called upon to disclose the person giving him the information: But it is perfectly new to me, I confess. I have no doubt it is my ignorance, I mean blameable ignorance, because I ought to be better informed in my profession; bat I never have met with an inStance in which it has been objected to asking a witness, upon cross-examination, who the person was to whom he communicated a fact that he states, because it happens that the person to whom he did communicate that fact, did advise him to communicate it farther to a magistrate. I know it is established in the court, in which your lordship long presided, that where an informer has communicated facts to a person, and that person has acted upon the communication of those facts, they cannot ask who brought those facts to his kyowledge ; but ;" you ask a witness whether he has communicated it to any other rson, and he tells you he has, whose name e does not mention, because he says that person advised him to communicate it toa 
GIBBS 7290 Magistrate. I think it never has been held, in a court of justice, that that was an objection to the question. 
ERSKINE 7304 Did you communicate any other part to this person from whom you received that advice 
ERSKINE 7306 Was that before or after you had been at the society 
ERSKINE 7308 How long after 
ERSKINE 7310 Let us have nothing about him. Now you know it is not legal to name him, you are ing to give me a description of him
ERSKINE 7312 Did you communicate your reports ip writing from time to time 
ERSKINE 7314 Did you givecopies of them 
ERSKINE 7316 You have nothing else, have you, in your book, except that which relates to this busness
ERSKINE 7318 In that book from which you have been reading most of the day 
ERSKINE 7320 Ts there any thing that relates to your pr vate business in either of them
ERSKINE 7322 Fold them down, if they are loose; we do not want to concern ourselves with your affairs, or any thing that does not relate to this business. Did not you appropriate ee books for this sort of information?}—I 
ERSKINE 7323 id. 
ERSKINE 7324 What leads you then to apprehend tbat there are any other matters riluve to your other business in them 
ERSKINE 7326 formation from different gentlemen; and, oc casionally, I made a memorandum ofthat communication, and I should not wish for that to be seen. 
ERSKINE 7327 Look over your book
ERSKINE 7329 Tam not asking any favour of you, or wishing for any thing that I am not entitled to have
ERSKINE 7331 Then take those out, and let us have the pot to-morrow
ERSKINE 7335 You have some papers that are not mixed with any thing of that sort 
ERSKINE 7337 Was it the custom at these meetings of the delegates of the.Corresponding Society forthe members to take -notes of all that passed 
ERSKINE 7339 For every delegate to set down every thing that passed 
ERSKINE 7341 I am not asking what was allowed, but whether it was the practice
ERSKINE 7343 It was the practice for other members to do as you have been doing, to sct down in a loose paper, or in a book, all the transactions that then happened 
ERSKINE 7345 And the substance of what every body said 
ERSKINE 7347 You do not profess that what you have been reading is a regular account of the most material facts that occurred; but that they were such as were most suitable fur your pur
ERSKINE 7348 Pose to set down
ERSKINE 7350 That was when a man was really a deleate, but you were not there as a real ond fide delegate, but for the purposes of justice 
ERSKINE 7352 T do not seem to make myself understood ; did you set down every thing faithfully that passed, or only select such matter as appeared most material for the public to know
ERSKINE 7354 Then those are the very reports that you would have made, had you been bund fide a delegate, and dving your duty as such to that society
ERSKINE 7356 Have you been in no other way of dealing, but an ironmonger, and in this commission way? have not you kept a china shopi— Never. 
ERSKINE 7357 When you communicated to this person, who, you thought, would go and communicate it toa magistrate, did you rest satisfied that your friend wonld do so; or did you at any lime go toa magistrate yourself 
ERSKINE 7363 Did you learn from your friend, whose name I do not ask, whether he had, in point of fact, laid from time to time, the communications before a magistrate, that you laid before him for that purpose 
ERSKINE 7365 Did you deliver yuur reports, from time to time, to that quarter ; or did youdeliver them immediately to some magistrate 
ERSKINE 7367 When you say that, you mean you sent them ta that person, to whom your friend recommended you to send them ? 
ERSKINE 7369 Did your friend advise you to lay them before a particular person 
ERSKINE 7371 A quarter; was ita man or a woman
ERSKINE 7373 Not whether it was a man ora woman. 
ERSKINE 7375 Was it to any particular petson that you were advised, by your friend, to make this communication or did he only advise you generally to make this communication, to somebody 
ERSKINE 7378 How long was it after the time when you were tried and acquitted, before you came to the society again
ERSKINE 7380 1 observe you do not take down who it was that made use of any particular expressions 
ERSKINE 7382 I know you have—in general in your book you do not profess to have taken down the words, but only the substance 
ERSKINE 7384 Ifa person delivered any opinion, which opinion might be at some length, you made the best abstract of it that you could, merely to say that that was his opinion or his argument
ERSKINE 7386 If any individual reported a paper, made an observation, or made an argument, you took down just an abstract of that, in your own language 
ERSKINE 7388 vere they taken down, bond fide to be rePorted as a delegate, or were they they taken down for the purpose for which we have had them here
ERSKINE 7390 Then it was perfectly bone fide, with regard to the society, and, ut the same time, lone fide with regard to the public
ERSKINE 7392 Have you made any alteration in your minutes since the time you made them 
ERSKINE 7394 Cannot you paste something over them 
ERSKINE 7400 None. 
ERSKINE 7402 Am I to understand you (and this is the only em I shall put wD I see these minutes) do you mean to re-swear that what you have read to-day, as minutes taken at the time, are the same minotes which you would have, bona fide, taken as 3 delegate, had you not had this otber view which you have before described
ERSKINE 7404 And the other delegates were in the course of taking similar memorandums 
ERSKINE 7407 I shall only desire to look at them in the morning ; perhaps I shall not put any questions. 
ERSKINE 7496  How did your master dress himself when he went out ‘—I saw him once with his re gimentals on. 
ERSKINE 7497 Had he a blue coat with a red cape, white waistcoat and breeches, and a cockade in his hat 
ERSKINE 7499 The cartouch-boxes were png Ba the cutting-out table, openly in the place 
ERSKINE 7501 And the arms were up in the room 
ERSKINE 7503 Did the people that exercised, wear the uniform
ERSKINE 7505 Your master walked out publicly in the street with his uniform 
ERSKINE 7507 You have seen him with them
ERSKINE 7517 You saw but five or six, I sink you say, exercise in the house 
ERSKINE 7536  Did you go from curiosity 
ERSKINE 7618  If this is worth pursuing, I would ask you whether you have one of these knives here
ERSKINE 7620 Is this all
ERSKINE 7622 And you sometimes cut a bit of meat with it 
ERSKINE 7624 You had no intention to cut throats with it, I hope 
ERSKINE 7628 Were those the same sort of knives that you said you had seen in various cutlers’ shops about town ?
ERSKINE 7630 I think there is hardly a cutler’s shop in town that has not such knives
ERSKINE 7632 Are those knives any new discovery in the ingenious age in which we live, or have they been in use all your tims 
ERSKINE 7634 I ask you, upon your solemn oath, whether there is any thing but what is common about these knives, or whether you did not use them in the common course of your trade, and whether Mr. Hardy did not buy them as a common customer 
ERSKINE 7636 And he happened to be taken up hefore you got them back again
ERSKINE 7638 It is a very useful knife; and I will buy one of them the next time I see you, Do you know Mr. Groves 
ERSKINE 7640 Had you ever any conversation with Mr. Groves, about your having sold knives of that description 
ERSKINE 7642 Did you tell Groves that you had sold two or three hundred of them 
ERSKINE 7644 You swear that
ERSKINE 7646 Did you tell him that you had sold two or three hundred, but desire him to speak low, because the parlour-door was open, and your wife was a damn’d aristocrat—did you say so
ERSKINE 7650 Did you say any thing him as if there was any thing improper in selling the knives 
ERSKINE 7652 Did you desire him to speak low lest it should be heard by others, that you were selh ing acommon article in your shop
ERSKINE 7654 You swear that
ERSKINE 7656 I think it right to inform you, that Groves has thought fit to swear you told him to speak very low, for that your parlour-door was open, and your wife was a damn’d aristocrat, and that you did not want her to know that you you were selling these knives 
ERSKINE 7658 Would you have sold a knife of any sort or description, to any man that you had the least idea was intended to be made use of illegally or unjustly 
ERSKINE 7660 Did you bespeak these knives for the purpose of selling them to mischievous people, or in the ordinary course of your trade
ERSKINE 7662 ‘Then I understand you to swear positively, it is not true what Groves has sworn concer; 
ERSKINE 7663 ing you
ERSKINE 7669 Did you wish to conceal selling these knives from your wite
GIBBS 7891 I submit to your lordship that that is improper. That sort of interlarding a a question is not permitted to us even in crossexamination. 
ERSKINE 7895 It is stated that the moment with which we are in correspondence. Let us have your answer then by the 20th, at farthest, earlier if possible, whether you approve of the measure ; and how many delegates you can send, with the number also, if possible, of your societies. We remain your's, in civic affection, the London Corresponding Society, T. Harpy, secretary. 
ERSKINE 7896 “ For the management of this business we have appointed a secret committee. You will judge, how far it is necessary for you todo the same. 
ERSKINE 7897 Addressed on the back Mr. Walter Miller, merchant, Perth. 
ERSKINE 7898 “ Show this to your neighbours. 
ERSKINE 7899 “ Answer, post paid, to the care of George Ross, Liberty Court, Edinburgh. Thegazetteer is tocomce out immediately. 
ERSKINE 7900 “Nothing but ready money subscriptions received. 
ERSKINE 7901  What was the object of your society, the 
ERSKINE 7902 Friends of the People
ERSKINE 7904 Had your society any design, from what you collected from the members of it, and from what was said and done in your presence, to attack the king’s person, or his prerogative, or state 
ERSKINE 7906 Was it your object in that association to do so
ERSKINE 7908 You I think were made a delegate from your society to the British Convention 
ERSKINE 7910 When you met together, the delegates from the different societies in your convention, did you consider yourselves as the parliament of Great-Britain 
ERSKINE 7912 Was any thing done, or said, by the delegates, situng in the convention, as if they had assumed to themselves the authority and functions of magistracy
ERSKINE 7914 Did they exercise any functions of legislative, or executive power 
ERSKINE 7916 Was there any thing said by any members against the king 
ERSKINE 7918 Did you make any laws to bind the people?? We should have been very foolish if we had proposed such a thing. 
ERSKINE 7919 What appeared to you to be the object 
ERSKINE 7921 How were you to do it 
ERSKINE 7923 Was that said aniong the members of the convention 
ERSKINE 7925 What number did the British Convention consist of 
ERSKINE 7927 Had you provided yourselves with arms to attack the magistracy and government of the country 
ERSKINE 7929 Were the delegates prepared to resist the magistracy by force 
ERSKINE 7931 If you had considered that you were duing that which was illegal and dishonourable for a subject to do, should you have done it !— No; we should have refrained from it. 
ERSKINE 7932 Should you have done it if you had thought it likely to be dangerous to the king's government or person 
ERSKINE 7934 Do you think there were any other persons in your society who meant any such thing 
ERSKINE 7936 What sort of persons did the convention consist of 
ERSKINE 7938 People of good character, sober lives, and morals 
ERSKINE 7940 Was there any proposition made in the convention, in your presence, during the time you attended it, that led to assuming any authority of your own
GIBBS 7972 I submit to your lordship that that is improper. That sort of interlarding a a question is not permitted to us even in crossexamination. 
ERSKINE 7976 It is stated that the moment any of those things were communicated, they were to be a signal for your holding a convention at such a place 
ERSKINE 7978 But what were you todo when you got together in this convention 
GIBBS 7988 The convention never had petitioned parliament. 
GIBBS 7990  Mr. Garrow states that the object was to petition again that parliament which the convention had before petitioned without effect—Now I am not aware that the convention had petitioned parliament. 
ERSKINE 8050 Mr. Attorney General, wish to know im whet way you make this evidence? 
ERSKINE 8067 We have been detained here for so many days, and we who are of counsel for the prisoner, having only been dismissed from the court to have that rest which nature requires, without any opportunity of Jonking at the different papers which constitute the great body of evidence in the cause, I confess, for one, that I am not so well prepared as I ought to be, nor is it possible for any man to be, to follow the attorney general in the connexion which he seems to iabour upon the different documents which he has read. As far as I understand him, I take it that there is nothing that can or ought to connect the prisoner with the proceedings in Scotland; in which he is sought to he involved
ERSKINE 8070 I fares the attorney general considers it only as evidence of first branch. 
ERSKINE 8072 Then we will admit it. 
ERSKINE 8073 Mr. Garrow to McEwan
ERSKINE 8075 From the Castle at Edinburgh 
ERSKINE 8077 whom were those several parties, which were to be thus stationed, to be composed 
ERSKINE 8079 What sort of persons, or belonging to what sort of societies or committees were they to be
ERSKINE 8151  Whether any letter was ever written to Mr. Hardy you do not know 
ERSKINE 8153 Or whether Mr. Hardy ever desired his correspondence you do not know 
ERSKINE 8155 Were you a member of the Society of the Friends of the People in Edinburgh 
ERSKINE 8157 What was this sub-committee at which Watt, Downie, and other persons attended 
ERSKINE 8159 What was the object of your society 
ERSKINE 8161 What number did your society consist of? — 1 suppose about twenty. 
ERSKINE 8162 Were you in the convention 
ERSKINE 8164 How many of the meetings did you attend in the convention when it sat 
ERSKINE 8166 Were you there when it was dispersed? when the magistrates came in 
ERSKINE 8168 During all the time you attended this convention, did you ever hear, from any of the members, any such talk as Watt indulged himself in at the committee 
ERSKINE 8170 Would you have set your foot into the convention if’ Watt, or any body else, had been talking of seizing ue the judges, and sendin g an address to the kin 
ERSKINE 8171 Non would not have would you
ERSKINE 8173 Was there any thing of that sort in the convention 
ERSKINE 8175 You never saw any thing of that sort
ERSKINE 8177 dione such a thing, 
ERSKINE 8178 From all you ever saw or heard of the members there, what do you believe the convention met to do
ERSKINE 8180 How did you understand, from the general conversation and debates in the society, that they meant to set about obtaining that A—By 2 petition. 
ERSKINE 8181 Do not grrurecdlioet it was said, that alapie ge parli t might not be disposed, as it had not been disposed to listen to petitions of small bodies of men, when no specific plan of reform was yet if a vast number of the people of England were to agree upon paiement, very probably it would meet with gd ate 
ERSKINE 8183 King, as far as I can recollect. 
ERSKINE 8186 You heard so in the convention 
ERSKINE 8190 Have you seen the books lately 
ERSKINE 8192 Or heard them read 
ERSKINE 8194 Of how many did the convention consist
ERSKINE 8196 But of how many do you suppose they consisted 
ERSKINE 8198 Had you ever any arms 
ERSKINE 8200 In any of the debates, that took place among the members of that. convention, was it ever proposed that they should arm them selves to overturn the government 
ERSKINE 8202 Was any thing said to that effect in the convention 
ERSKINE 8204 Was it ever proposed that they should have arms, im order to defend themselves against the magistracy, and to insist upon making laws instead of the parliament 
ERSKINE 8206 Did Watt ever say any thing of that sort in the convention when you were there 
ERSKINE 8208 Was he a member of the convention 
ERSKINE 8210 As soon as Watt mentioned this, you say you rejected it with indignation
ERSKINE 8212 What sort of people did your socicty consist of 2—Working people. 
ERSKINE 8213 In your society was it ever proposed or debated among you to overturn the govctnment
ERSKINE 8215 What sort of a reform was it you wanted 
ERSKINE 8217 Ww did you understand by universal suffrage 
ERSKINE 8219 Was it ever debated, or was it ever proposed: that the king’s persan or his throne were to be touched
ERSKINE 8221 Were you to petition for any alteration in the House of Lords, or any thing of that sort
ERSKINE 8263 This was after Mr. Hardy was taken up. 
ERSKINE 8267 My lords this is the fourth day that my friend Mr. Gibbs and myself, have stood undoubtedly in a very anxious situation; there has been a most voluminous body of written evidence, all of which has not been printed; copies of that part which is unprinted, have not as yet reached me : there have been two days spent in hearing parole evidence ; and we being but two assigned as counsel for the prisoner, have been obliged constantly to be engaged in court, in Cross-examining the witnesses for the crown ; and your lordships very well know, that the ¢ross-examination of the witnesses, presents a great feature of our case on the part of the prisoner
ERSKINE 8275 I should be afraid to take upon myself the experiment of trying a cause, particularly of this magnitude, in a manner totally different from any that ever occurred in the annals of this country. I should be afraid to begin an experiment of that sort, more especially when counsel in a capital case; because undoubtedly the evidence comes with infinitely more weight, and I mean by weight the proper weight evidence ought to have, the ing of it upon the case when stated by the counsel, who is to introduce it; and much of the effect of evidence is lost, and much distorted by the cross-examination of counsel, until the true bearing of it is explained. I do not propose that which can be properly termed a suspension of the trial, that could throw that sort of inconvenience upon the jury, which would, I am sure, give me as much pain as any body in the world; but your lordships will recollect the attorney general in opening his case (I am sure I think as highly as it is possible of the ability of the attorney general, and of the manzer in which he pertormed his duty), he found it necessary undoubtedly to spend nine hours in the opening of that case, —the prisoner most unquestionably may exoe an equal time, if it were necessary, for is counsel te take the same course in opening his case; and if I were thrown upon it in the present moment, not having a sufficient recollection af the great points of the evidence; df I were put upon speaking to the jury, I might take that course of ing at great Jength, great umbers of 3; whereas, if i had the opportunity of a few hours mene, which is the nature of my application, merely to arrange my papers, and to select such as, in the judgment of my learned friend and myself, are sufficient to do this as it ought to be done, it would save time. 
ERSKINE 8278 I do not know whether your lordships mean to sit on Sunday. 
ERSKINE 8280 I am literally at this moment, and I have been all day yesterday and to-da: so extremely unwell, that I do not think if were called upon to speak for aay length of time, I could possibly support it. 
ERSKINE 8282 I should be sorry to put the jury to any inconvenience
ERSKINE 8285 As I stated before, the attorney general found it necessary to consume nine hours, I shall not consume half that time,—certainly I think I shall not consume half that time, if I bad an opportunity of doing that which I humbly request of the court, that is, of arranging the materials in such a manner that I should be able to make those observations which occur to me to be the proper observations to be made, as counsel for the prisoner. 
GIBBS 8287 With respect to that expedient T have no douht to say, that it is utterly impossible for Mr. Erskine and myself, in the situation in which we are, respecting uurselves, respecting the Court, and respecting the public, pe the jury, it is utterly impossible for us to think of that, because if any thing adverse should happen when we have taken such a line, the imputation will lie upon us. 
ERSKINE 8289 Since it is put expressly to me, I shall propose, unless the jury professaa very serious inconvenience to them, instead of coming in the morning at the time we generally come, our coming at twelve o'clock, 80 that the attorney g: can finish at one. Mr. Gibbs will have the goodness to take a note of the few facts stated Ly the witnesses 5 I shall be able by that time to come. 
GIBBS 8291 We conceive your lordships will permit Mr. Erskine to open the case of Mr. any: then our witnesses will be examined, and then I shall be heard after ous witnesses, 
ERSKINE 8293 I should be glad if your lordships would allow another hour. 
ERSKINE 8295 My lord, I never was placed in such a situation in the whole course of my practice before, with so many gentlemen on the other side; however, I do not shrink from iy 
GIBBS 8299 Your lordship secs that the evidence offered is that these papers, after the apprehension of Mr. Hardy, were found in the possession of Mr. Martin and Mr. Thelwall, merely that they. were in their possession, not that they were ever used by them, it does not appear but that they might have got into their possession again, but simply that they were in their custody as a newspaper is in my hand this morning, and may pass inte other hands. 
GIBBS 8301 I understand the rule generally to go to any paper that was in the hands of any one daa I understand that to be the principle. 
GIBBS 8307 Look at that paper
GIBBS 8309 When did you find it
GIBBS 8317 Did you ever see Mr. Martin write
GIBBS 8319 You did live in the Adelphi, I believe 
GIBBS 8345 How do you know that
GIBBS 8355  What are you
GIBBS 8357  Were you in the King’s-bench prison for debt 
GIBBS 8359 For two years I think you say 
GIBBS 8361 Had you any difference with Mr. Martin there
GIBBS 8363 I do not want to know the reason of your difference, you had a violent quarrel 
GIBBS 8365 You never uttered any expressions of resentment or threats against him, did you
GIBBS 8394 Your lordskips see this is not evidence against Mr. Hardy; in fact, it is not the more evidence for Hardy's name being mentioned, than if it was not mentioned. 5 
GIBBS 8396  What resolutions were those that Mr. Martin spoke of
GIBBS 8400 Can you swear that these are the very papers that you saw in Mr. Martin's hand 
GIBBS 8402 Were they ever put into your hand to read
GIBBS 8404 Since 
GIBBS 8406 You have frequently read them 
GIBBS 8408 You amused yourself with looking into Mr. Martin's papers when he was not there
GIBBS 8410 When you speak of the copies that Pearce said had been give among the Coach-makers, do you mean to say that they were copies of these papers
GIBBS 8412 But you do not mean that they were copies of those which are now put into court? 
GIBBS 8414 I know it is not, but I thought that mistake might arise. 
GIBBS 8470 Does your lordship think that without producing the paper itself, which was handed round, they can give in evidence a paper similar to it? 
GIBBS 8484 Does your lotdship think that this, which was all after the apprehension of the prisoner, is evidence? 
GIBBS 8490  It seems to me that upon the principle your lordships have laid down, that nothing which happened after the apprehension of the prisoner can be evidence against him; this evidence ought to be excluded: whether the evidence they have iven, previous to the apprehension, answers e purpose they wish, ts another thing; but some pikes having been ordered by Orrock, or Watt, before the apprehension of Mr. Hardy, does not make the finding of these pikes, after the apprehension df Hardy, evidence, any more than if no order whatever had been given for them previously: if the former evidence is not complete for the purpose for which they want it, [cannot conceive upon what principle the pikes being found in the possession of this man, after Mr. Hardy’s apprehension, is rendered evidence, by a circumstance which happened before it ; itwould not have been evidence supposing that communication had not taken place. 
GIBBS 8492 Your lordship sees, in arguin, this, that do not mean to admit that the order was Mr. Hardy’s, or any thing like it. 
ERSKINE 8583 Gentlemen of the Jury, Before I proceed to the performance of the momentous duty which is atlength cast upon me, I desire in the first place to return my thanks to the Judges, for the indulgence I have received in the opportunity of addressing you at this later period of the day, than the ordinary sitting of the Court; when IJ have had the refreshment which nature but too much required, and a few hours retirement, to arrange a little in my mind that immense matter, the result of which I must now endeavour to lay before you
ERSKINE 8585 Before I advance to the regular consideration of this great cause, either as it regards the evidence or the law, I wish first to put aside all that I find in the speech of my learned friend, the attorney general, which is either collateral to the merits, or in which I can agree with him. First then, tv THE NAME OP THE PRISONER, and speaking Ais sentiments, which are well known to be my own also, I concur in the eulogium which you have heard upon the constitution of our wise furefathers. But before this eulogium can have any just or useful application, we ought to reflect upon shat it is which entitles this Constitution to the praise so justly bestowed upon it. To say nothing at present of its most essential excellence, or rather the very soul of it, viz. the share the people ought to have in their government, by a pure representation, for the assertion of which the Prisoner stands arraigned asa traitor before you,—what is it that 
ERSKINE 8586 “ I have been indulged by Mr. Rogers, the celebrated author of the Pleasures of Memory and other poems, with Mr. Horne Tooke’s copy of Hardy’s trial, where I find in Mr. Tooke’s hand-writing at the end of this argument, the following remarkable note: ‘Tus SPEECH WILL LIVE FOR EVEB. 
ERSKINE 8587 distinguishes the government of England from the most despotic monarchies? What— but the security which the subject enjoys in a trial and judgment by. his equals; rendered doubly secure as being part of a system of law which no expediency can warp, and which no power can abuse with impunity ? 
ERSKINE 8588 To the Attorney General’s second prelimihay observation, I equally agree
ERSKINE 8590 Gentlemen, the first thing in order, is to look at the indictment itself; of the whole of which, or of some integral part, the prisoner must be found guilty, or be wholly discharged from guilt. 
ERSKINE 8591 The indictment charges that the prisoners did’ maliciously and traitorously conspire, compass, and imagine, to bring and put our lord the king to death ; and that to fulfil, perfect, and bring to effect, their most evil and wicked purpose (that is to suy, of bringing and putting the king to death), “they met, conspired, consulted, and agreed amongst themselves, and other false traitors unknown, to cause and procure a convention to be assemr bled within the kingdom, WITH INTENT— (Lam reading the very words of the indictment, which I entreat you to follow in the notes you have been taking with such honest perseverance)—“ WITH INTENT, AND IN ORDER that the persons so assembled at such convention, should and might traitor ously, and in defiance of the authority, and ast the will of Parliament, subvert and 
ERSKINE 8592 ‘er, and cause to be subverted and altered, the legislature, rule, and government of the country, and to depase king from the royal. state, Ute, power, and government thereof. This is the first and great leading overt act in the indictment; and you observe that it js not charged as being treaSOD SUBSTANTIVELY AND IN ITSELF; but only ag itis committed in pursuance of the treason against the king’s Penson, antecedently imputed; for the charge is nor, that the prisoners conspired to assemble a convention to nerose the king, but that they. conspired and compassed his peatH; and that, in order to accomplish that wicked and detestable purpose, i. ¢, in order to fulfil the traitorous intention of the mind against his LiFe, they conspired to assemble aconvention, with a view to depose him. The same ol tion applies alike to all the other counts or overt ais upon the record, which manifestly indeed ah supors te yay cise shetaes elr sup, because t lication of different writings, and provision of arms, not as distinct offences, but. as acts done to excite ta. the assembling of the same convention, and te meintain it: when assem, 
ERSKINE 8593 Hees but sot nll anid sehen sent se he forgotten, use they also un! ly charge sie different acts as committed in fulfilment of the same traitorous purpose, To BRING THE xInG ‘To pEaTH. You will therefore have three distinct matters for consideration, upon this trial: First, What share (if any) the prsoner had, in concert with others, in assembling any convention or meeting of subjects within this eingsom : Secondly, What were the acts to be done by this convention, when assem Hledsan a a Thirdly, Yibat was deve, purpose, and intention of those who projected its, existence, This third iderati indeed, comprehends, or rather precedes and swallows up the other two ; because, before it can be material to decide upon the views of the convention, as pointed to the subversion of the rale and order of the king’s political authority (even if such views could be ascribed to it, and brought home even personally to ae meat ‘aa shall have to cenit whe ther that crimina).conspiracy, against the established order of the community, was hatched and; engendered by a wicked. contemplation to destroy the natural life and person of the king, and whether the acts and established by the evidence, were done ia pursuance and in fulfilment of the same traitor ous purpose, Gentlemen, this view of the subject is not only correct, but self evident
ERSKINE 8595 Gentlemen, the first question consequently for consideration, and to which I must therefore earnestly implore the attention of the Court, is this: WHAT IS THE LAW UPON THIS MOMENTOUS SUBJECT? And recollecting that Iam invested with no authority, I shall not presume to offer you any thing of my own ; nothing shall proceed from myself upon this part of the inquiry, but that which is merely introductory, and necessary to the understanding of the authorities on which I mean to rely for the establishment of doctrines, not less essential to the general liberties of England, than to the particular Sonsivertcn which constitutes our present uty. 
ERSKINE 8596 First then, I maintain that that branch of the statute 95th of Edward Srd, which declares it to be high treason “ when a man doth compass or imagine the death of the King, of his lady the Queen, or of his eldest son and heir, was intended to guard by a higher sanction than felony, the Naturat tives of the King, Queen, and Prince ; and that no act, therefore (cither inchoate or consummate), of resistance to, or rebellion ugainst, the King’s regal capucity, amounts to high treason of compassing his death, unless where they can be charged upon the indictment, and proved to the satisfaction of the Jury at the trial, as overt acts, committed by the prisoner, in fulSilment of a traitorous intention to destroy the King’s NaTuRAL LIFE. 
ERSKINE 8597 Secondly, that the compassing the King’s death, or, in other words, the traitorous intention to destroy his natural existence, is the treason, and not the overt acts, which are only laid as manifestations of the traitorous intention, or, in other words, a3 EVIDENCE competent to be left to a Jury to prove it; and that no conspiracy to levy war aguinst the King, nor any conspiracy against his regal character or capacity, is a good overt act of cempassing Ais death, unless some force be exerted, or in contemplation against tr Krno’s Person: and that such force so exerted or in contemplation, is not substantively the treason of compassing, but only competent in point of law to establish it, if the Jury, by the verdict of Guilty, draw that conclusion of fact from the evidence of the overt act. 
ERSKINE 8598 Thirdly, that the charge in the Indictment, of compassing the King’s death, is not laid as legal inducement or introduction, to follow as a legal inference from the establishment of the overt act, but is laid as an averment of a Fact; and, as such, the very gist of the Indictment, to be affirmed or negatived by the verdict of Guilty or Not Guilty. It will not (iam persuaded) be suspected by the Attorney General, or by the Court, that Iam about to support these doctrines by oppusing my een are a a aremeetieie tee own putgarent to the authoritative writings of the venerable and excellent lord Hale, whose memory will live in this country, and pete the enlightened world, as long as the administration of pure justice shall exist : neither do I wish to oppose any thing which is to be found in the other learned authorities principally relied upon by the Crown, because all my positions are perfectly consistent with a right interpretation of them ; and because, even were it otherwise, I could not expect successfully to oppose them by any reasonings of my own, which can have no weight, but as they shall be found at once consistent with acknowledged authorities, and with the established principles of the English law
ERSKINE 8600 Gentlemen, before I purste the course T have prescribed to myself, I desire most distinctly to be understood, that in my own opinion the most successful argument, that a conspiracy to ag the king does not necessarily establish the treason charged upon this record, 1s TOTALLY RESIDE ANY POSSIBLE JYUDGMENT THAT YOU CAN HAVE TO FORM UPON THE EVIDENCE BEFORE YOU; since throughout the whole volumes that have been read, I can trace nothing that even points to the imagination of such a conspiracy; and consequently the doctrines of Coke, Male, and Foster, on the subject of high treason, might equally be detailed in any other trial that has ever been proceeded upon in this place. But, gentlemen, I stand in a fearful and delicate situation
ERSKINE 8602 In this process I shall begin with lord Hale, who opens this important subject by stating the reason of passing the statute of the twenty-fifth of Edward the third, on which the indictment is founded
ERSKINE 8604 CONSTRUCTION, CONSEQUENCE, and INTERPRETATION, faised into the offence of high treason. This is the lamentation of the great Hale upon the state of this country previous to the passing of the statute, which, he says, ‘was passed as 4 REMEDIAL law, to put an end to them; and Lord Coke, considering it in the same light, says, in his third Institute, page 2nd, “ the parliament which passed this statute was called (as it well deserved) parliomenta benedictum ; and the like honour was given to it by the different statutes which from tim to time brought back treasons to its standart, all agreeing in magnifying and extolling thi blessed Act
ERSKINE 8606 The statute, therefore, being expressly made remove doubts; and accurately to define treason, adopted the ancient expression of the common law, as applicable to felonious homicide, meaning that the life of the sovereign 
ERSKINE 8607 Id remain an exception, and that vorun
ERSKINE 8608 Tas PRo Facro, the wicked intention for the deed itself (as it regarded his sacred life), should continue for the rule: and, therefore, says Foster, the statute meaning to RETAIN the law which was before general, RETAINED also the expression. It appears to me, therefore, incontrovertible, not only by the words of the statute itself, but upon the authority of Foster, which I shall follow up by that of lord Coke and Hale, contradicted by no sylle in their works, as I shall demonstrate, that the statute, as it regarded the security of king’s tirz, did not mean to enact a new security never known to the common law in other cases, but meant to suffer a common law rule which formerly existed universally, which was precisely known, but which was too severe in common cases, to remain as an copton in favour of the king’s security —I do therefore positively maintain, NoT aS AN ADVOCATE MERELY, but IN MY OWN PERSON, 
ERSKINE 8609 that, within the letter and meaning of the statute, nothing can be a compassing the death of the king that would not, in ancient times, have been a felony in the case of a subject; for otherwise Foster and Coke, as will be seen, are very incorrect when they say the statute reTarnep the old law, and the appropriate word to express it; for if it went BEYOND IT, it would, on the contrary, have been a newrule unknown to the common law, enacted, for the first time, for the preservation of the king’s life. Unquestionably the legislature might have made such a rule; but we are not inquiring what it mixit have enacted, but what it Aas enacted. But I ought to ask pardon for having relapsed into any argument of my own upon this subject, when the authorities are more express to the purpose than any language I can use; for Mr. Justice Foster bimee f expressly says, Discourse descriptive of the offence, viz. ‘if a man doth compass or imagine, and thereof be attainted of open deed, are plainly borrowed from the common law, and therefore must bear the same construction they did at common law.—Is this distinct 
ERSKINE 8611 “ All this mischief was produced by the sta“te of the Qist uf Richard 2nd, which enacted, L.. ‘every man that compusseth or pursueth the of the King, on To DEPOSE HIM, OR TO RENDER UP HIS HOMAGE LIEGE, or he that raiscth people, and rideth against the King, to make war within kis realm, and of that be nvty altainted and adjudged, shall be adjudged a traitor, of high treason against the crown, 
ERSKINE 8612 “ This, says lord Hale, “ was a great snare to the subject, insomuck that the statute 1st of Henry 4th, which repealed it, recited that no man knew how he ought to behave himself, to do, speak, or say, for doubt of such puins of treason: and therefore, wholly to remove the prejudice, which might come tothe king’s subjects, the statute 1st of Henry 4th chap. 10, was made WHICH BROUGHT BaCK TREASON TO THE STANDARD or THE 25TH OF Epwarp Srp. 
ERSKINE 8613 Now if we look to this statute of Richard 2nd, which produced such mischiefs—what are they 
ERSKINE 8615 ing a compassing to levy war, on a footing with the actual levying it
ERSKINE 8617 Gentlemen, this distinction, made by the humane statute of Edward 3rd, between treason against the king’s natural life, andrebellion against his civil authority, and winch the act of Richard 2nd, for a season, bruke down, is founded in wise and sound policy. successtul attack may be made upon the king's person by the malignity of an individual, wi out the combination of extended conspiracy, or the exertions of rebellious force; the law therefore justly stands upon the watch to crush the first overt manifestation of so evil and detestable a purpose—Considering the life of the chief magistrate as infinitely important tothe public security, it does not wait for the possible consummation of a crime, which requires neither time, combination, nor force to accomplish, but considers the traitor. ous purpose as a consummated treason: but the wise and humane policy of our foretathers extended the severity of the rule, coluntas pro facto, no farther than they were thus impelled and justified by the necessity; and therefore an intention to levy war and rebellion, not consummated, however manifested by the most overt acts of conspiracy, was not declared to be treason, and upon the plainest pricciple in the world ; the king’s rEGaL capacity, guarded by all the force and authority of the state, could not like his NatuRAL existence, be overthrown or endangered in a moment, by the first machinations of the traitorous mind of an individual, or even by the unarmed conspiracy of numbers; and therefore this humane and exalted institution, measuring the sanctions of criminal justice by the standard of civil necessity, thought it sufficient to scourge and dissipate unarmed conspirators by a less vindictive proceeding. 
ERSKINE 8618 These new treasons were, however, st. length all happily swept away on the accession of king Henry 4th, which brought the law back to the standard of Edward srd ;and, indeed, in reviewing the history of this highly favoured island, it is most beautiful, and, at the same time, highly encouraging to observe, by what an extraordinary concurrence of circumstances, under the superintendence of ay benevolent Providence, the liberties of our country have been established
ERSKINE 8620 Gentlemen, the act of Henry 4th was scarcely made when it shared the same fate with the vencrable law which it restored. — Nobody regarded it
ERSKINE 8622 “ Destroy his fib and sophistry, in vain, «« The creature's at his dirty work again. 
ERSKINE 8623 This system, both judicial and parliamentary, became indeed so intolerable, in the and repeal all, but only such as ure specified and expressed in this statute of Edward 8rd. By which law the safety of both the King and of the subject, and the prescrcation of the common weal, were wisely and sufficiently provided for, and in such certuinty, that nihil relictum est arbitrio judicis. The whole evil, indeed, to be remedied and avoided by the act of Queen Mary was, the arsitnium Jupicts, or judicial construction beyond the Letrer of the statute. The statute itself was perfect, and was restored in its full vigour; and to suppose, therefore, that when an act was expressly made, because judges had built treasons by constructions beyond the law, they were to be left, consistently with their duty, to go on building acarn, is to impute a folly to the legislature, which never yet was imputed to the framers of this admirable statute. But this absurd idea is expressly excluded, not merely by the statute, according to its’ plain interpretation, but according to the direct authority of lord Coke himself, in his commentary upon it. For he goes on to say, “ Two things are to be observed ; first, that the word EXPRESSED, in the statute of Maury, excludes all IMPLICATIONS OR INFERENCES WHAT SOEVER; secondly, that no former attainder, judgment, precedent, resolution, or opinion of judges, or justices, of high treason, other than such as are specified and expressed in the statute of Edward 3rd, are to be followed or drawn into example—For the words be plain and direct ; that from henceforth no act, deed, or offence shall be taken, hud, deemed or adjudged to be high treason, but only such as are declared and expressed in the suid act of the 25th of Edward 3rd, any act of parliament or statute ufter 25th of Edward 3rd, or any other declaration or matter, to the contrary notwithstanding. 
ERSKINE 8624 Gentlemen, if the letter of the statute of Mary, when coupled with lord Coke's commentary, required farther illustration, it would amply receive it from the pRrAMBLE, which interval between the reign of Henry 4th,| ought to be engraved on the heart of every and that of Philip and Mary, that it produced, man who loves the king, or who is called to in the first year of the latter reign, the most remarkable statute that ever passed in England, repealing not only all former statutes upon the subjcct, except that of Edward Srd, but also stigmatizing, upon the records of Parliament, the arbitrary constructions of Judges, and limiting them, in all times, to every LETTER of the statute. I will read to you lord Coke’s commentary upon the subject. In his third Institute, page 23, he says, “ Before the act of the 25th of Edward 
ERSKINE 8625 3rd, so many treasons had been made and declared, and in such sort penned, as not only the ignorant und unlearned people, but also learned and cxrpert men, were trapped and snared. Thus the great mischief before Edward 3rd, of the uncertainty of what was treason and what not, became so frequent and dangerous, as that the safest and surest remedy was by this excellent act of Mary to abrogate t any share in his councils; for, as lord Coke observes, in the same commentary : it truly recites, that “ the state of a king stundeth and consisteth more assured by the love und favour of the subjects towards their Suvercign, than in the dread and feurs of laws, made with rigorous and extreme punishment ; and that luws, justl made for the preservation of the common weal, without extreme punishment or penalty, are more often and for the most part better kept and obeyed, thun laws and statutes made with extreme punishment. 
ERSKINE 8626 But, gentlemen, the most important part of lord Coke’s commentary on this statute is’ yet behind, which I shall presently read to. you, and to which I implore your most earnest attention; because I will show yout by it, that the unfortunate man, whose innocence I am defending, is arraigned before you of high treason, upon evidence not only wholly repugnant to this particular statute, in trials for other crimes, on the contrary, the but such as never yet was heard of in Englandlegislature did not even leave it to the ju upon any capital trial:, evroence which, even with all the attention you have given to it, I defy any one of you, at this moment, to say of what it consists ; evipence, which (since -itmust be called by that name) I tremble for my boldness in presuming to stand up for the life of a man, when I am conscious that I am incapable of understanding from it, even what acts are imputed to him ; pencr, which has consumed four days in the reading ; not in reading the acts of the prisoncr, but the unconnected writings of men, unknown to one another, upon a hundred different subjects; evipence, the very listening to which has deprived me of the sleep which nature requires; which has filled my mind with See ig distress and agitation, and which, from its discordant unconnected nature, has suffered me to reap no advantage from the indulgence, which I began with thanking you for; but which, on the contrary, has almost set my brain on fire, with the vain endeavour of collecting my thoughts upon a ee never designed for any rational course of thinking. 
ERSKINE 8627 Let us, therefore, see how the unexampled condition I am placed in falls in with Tord Coke ays this subject, whose authority is appealed to by the Crown itself; and let us home and burn our books if they are to lazon forth the law by eulogium, and accurately to define its protection, which yet the subject is to be totally cut off from, when, even under the sanction of these very authors, he stands upon his trial for his existence. Lord Coke says, in the same commentary, page 12, that the statute had not only accurately defined the care, but the nature of the proor on which alone a man shall be attainted of any of the branches of high treason,—“ It is to be observed, says he, “ that the word in the act of Edward Srd is proveABLEMENT: i. ¢, Upon direct and manifest Proof, not upon conjectural presumptions, or inJSerences, or strains of, wit, but upon good and sufficient proof. And herein the adverb proveABLY hath a great force, and signifieth a DIRECT PLAIN proof, which word the Lords and Commons in Parliament did use, Sor that the offence of treason was so heinous, and was 80 heavily and severely punished, as none other the like, and therefore the offender must be PROVEABLY attainted, which words are as forcible as upon direct and manifest proof. Note, the word is not PROBABLY, for then com. mune argumentum might have served, but the word is PRoveaBLy be attainted. 
ERSKINE 8628 Nothing can be so curiously and tautologously laboured as this commentary, of even at great prerogative lawyer lord Coke, upon this emgle word in the statute; and it manifestly shows, that, so far from its being the spirit and principle of the law of England, to loosen the construction of this statute, and to adopt rules of construction and proof, unusual to apply the ordinary rules of legal (") tele ander it, but ciionialied thee t do justice in that respect in the very body of the statute. 
ERSKINE 8629 Lord Hale treads in the same path with lord Coke, and concludes this part of the subject by the following most remarkable passagevol. i. chap. xi. 86. 
ERSKINE 8630 “ Now although the crime of high treason the greatest crime against faith, duty, ond human society, and brings with it the greatet and most fatal dangers to the government, peace, and happiness of a kingdom, or stale; and, therefore, is deservedly branded with the highest ignominy, and subjected to the greatet penalties that the laws can inflict, it appesrs, first, how necessary it was that there should ke some KNOWN, FIXED, SETTLED boundary for this great crime of treason, and of what great importance the statute of 25th of Ed:card Srd wet, iu order to that end. Second, How dangerous it is to depart from the LETTER of that state, and to multiply and enhance crimes into treasn by ambiguous and general words, such as accroaching royal power, subverting fundamental laws, and the like. And third, how dangerous it is by construction, and ANALOGY, to MAKE treasons where the LETTER of the law ha not done it
ERSKINE 8632 Surely the admonition of this supereminent lawyer ought to sink deep into the heart of every judge, and of every juryman, who is called to administer justice under this statute; above all, in the times and under the circumstances which assemble us in this place. —Honourable men, feeling, as they ought, for the ny of government, and the tram quillity of the country, and naturally indignant against those who are supposed to have brought them into peril, ought from that very cause to proceed with more abundant caution, lest they should be surprised by their resent ments or their fears; they ought to i ieseain the judgments they form, by slow trembling steps; they ought even to fall back and look at every thing again, lest a false light should deceive them, admitting no fact but upon the foundation of clear and precise evidence, and deciding upon no intention that does not result with equal clearness from the fact—This is the universal demand of justice in every case criminal or civil; how much more especially then in this, when the judgment is every moment in danger of swept away into the fathomless abyss of 3 thousand volumes; where there is no apchoe for the understanding; where no reach of thought can look round in order to com pare their points; nor any memory be cious enough to retain even the im relation that can be collected from them? 
ERSKINE 8633 Gentlemen, my is the more affected with this consideration by a very recent example in that monstrous phenomenon which, under the name of a trial, has driven us out of Westminster-Hall for a large portion of my professional life. No man is less disposed than I am to speak lightly of great state prosecutions, which bind to their duty those who have no other superiors, nor any other control; least of allam I capable of even glancing a censure against those who have led to or conducted the impeachment, because I respect and love many of them, and know them to be amongst the best and wisest men in the nation.—I know them indeed so wellas to be persuaded that could they have foreseen the vast field it was to open, andthe length of time it was to occupy, they never would have en- gaged init; for I defy any man, not enlightened by the divine spirit, to say, with the precision and certainty of an English judge deciding upon evidence before him, that Mr. Hastings is guilty or not guilty: for who knows what is before him, or what is not
ERSKINE 8635 The next great question is, how the admonitions of these great writers are to be reconciled with what is undoubtedly to be found in other parts of their works; and I think I do mot go too far, when I say, that it ought to be the inclination of every person’s mind who is considering the meaning of any writer, particularly if he be a person of superior learning and intelligence, to reconcile as much aspossible aj] he says upon any subject, and not to adopt such a construction as necessarily raises up one part in direct opposition to another. 
ERSKINE 8636 It was the good fortune of Mr. Erskine to remedy, in his own person, the evil thus complained of, when he presided as chancellor on the trial of lord Melville
ERSKINE 8638 The law itself, indeed, adopts this sound tule of judgment in the examination of every matter which is laid before it, fora sound construction; and the judges, therefore are bound by duty as well as reason to adopt it. 
ERSKINE 8639 It apears to me, ‘hen, that the only ambiguity which arises, or can possibly arise, in the examination of the great authorities, and in the comparison of them with themselves, or with one another, is, from not rightly understanding the meaning of the term overt ACT as applied to this species of treason. The moment ae get right upon the true meanin and signification of this expression, the curtain is drawn up, and all is light and certainty. 
ERSKINE 8640 Gentlemen, an overt act of the high treason charged upon this record, I take, with great submission to the Court, to he plainly and simply this : the high treason charged, is the compassing or imagining (in other words, the intending or designing) the death of the king ; I mean his waturat peat; which being a hidden operation of the mind, an overt act is any thing which legally proves the existenoe of such traitorous design and intention—I say that the design against the king’s natural life, is the high treason under the first branch of the statute; and whatever is evidence, which may be legally laid before a jury to judge of the traitorous intention, is a legal overt act ; because an overt act is nothing but legal evidence embodied upon the record. 
ERSKINE 8641 The charge of compassing being a charge of intention, which, without a manifestation by conduct, no human tribunal could try; the statute requires by its very letter (but without 
ERSKINE 8642 ‘which letter reason must have presumed) 
ERSKINE 8643 that the intention to cut off the sovereign should be manifested Hh an open act; and as a prisoner charged with an intention, could have no notice how to defend himself without the charge of actions from whence the intention was to be imputed to him, it was always the practice, according to the sound principles of English law, to state upon the face of the indictment the overt act, which the crown charges as the means made use of by the prisoner to effect his traitorous purpose ; and as this rule was too frequently departed from, the statute of the seventh of king William enacted, for the benefit of the prisoner, that no evidence should even be given of any overt act not charged in the indictment. The charge, therefore, of the overt acts in the indictment is the notice, enacted by statute to be given to the prisoner for his protection, of the means by which the crown is to submit to the jury the existence of the traitorous purpose, which is the crime alleged against him, and in pursuance of which traitorous purpose the overt acts must also be charged to have been committed
ERSKINE 8645 after the overt acts are received upon the record as competent, and are established by proof upon the trial, they be sufficient or in- sufficient in the particular instance, to convince the jury of the traitorous compassing or intention, isa mere matter of Fact, which, from its very nature, can be reduced to no other standard than that which each man’s owa conscience and understanding erects in his mind, as the arbiter of his judgment
ERSKINE 8647 To apply that reasoning to the case before us: The matter to be inquired of here is, the fact of the prisoner’s intention, as in the case I have just cited it was the fact of the defendant's knowledge
ERSKINE 8649 Gentlemen, this particular crime of compassing the king’s death, is so complete an anomaly, being wholly seated in unconsummated intention, that the law cannot depart from describing it according to its real es sence, even when it is followed by his death: —a man cannot be indicted for kiliing the king, as was settled in the case of the resicides of Charles ist, after long consultation among all the judges : it was held that tie very words of the stutute must be pursued, and that although the king was actually mudered, the prisoners who destroyed him could not be charged with the act itself, as hich treason, but with the compassing of his death; the very act of the exccutioner m beheading him, being only laid as the over act upon the record
ERSKINE 8651 Indeed, gentlemen, the proposition is clear, that one gets confounded in therzvment from the very simplicity of it; but stl ! stand in a situation which I am determined at all events to fulfil to the utmost; and I shall therefore not leave the matter upon these authorities, but will bring it down to our own times, repeating my challenge to have produced one single authority m contradiction Lord Coke, in his third Institute, page 11, and 12, says : “ The indictment must charge that the prisoner traitorously compussed and imagined the death and destruction of the king. He says too,— There must be a compassing or imagination ; for an act without compassing, intent, or imagination, ts not within the act, as appeareth by the express letter thereof. Et actus non faci reum nisi mens sit rea. Nothing in language can more clearly illustrate my proposition. The indictment, like every ibe indictment, must charge distinctly and specifically the crime: that charge must therefore be in the very words of the statute which creates crime; the crime created by the statute not being the perpetration of any act, but being, in the rigorous severity of the law, the very contemplation, intention, and contrivance of a purpose directed to an act: that contemplation, purpose, and contrivance, must be found to exist, without which, says lord Coke, there can be no compassing : and as the intention of the mind cannot be investigated without the investigation of conduct, the overt act is required by the statute, and must be laid in the indictment and proved.— It follows from this deduction, that upon the clear principles of the English law, every act may be laid as an overt act of compassing the king’s death, which may be reasonably considered to be relevant and competent to manifest that intention; for, were rt otherwise, it would be shutting out from the view of the jury, certain conduct of the prisoner, which might, according to circumstances, lead to manifest the criminal intention of his mind; and as more than one overt act may be laid, and even overt acts of different kinds, though not in themselves substantively treason, the judges aj to be justified in law, when they ruled them to be overt acts of compassing the death of the king; because they are such acts as before the statute of king William which required that the indictment should charge all overt acts, would have been held to be relevant proof; of which relevancy of Bang the poilees ate to judge as matter of tw’; and therefore being relevant proof, must also be relevant matter of charge, because nothing can be relevantly charged which may not also he relevantly admitted to proof. These observations explain to the meanest capacity,’ in what sense lord Coke must be understood, when he says, in the very same page, that, “ 4 preparation to depose the king, and to take the king by force and strong hand, wntil he has yielded to certain demands, is a preg overt act to PRovE the compassing of the king’s death. He does not say as a PROPesrrion oF Law, that he who prepares to seize the king, compasseth his death, but thatapreparation to seize him is a sufficient overt act to Prove the compassing; and he directly gives the reason, “because of the strong, tendency it has to that end. This latter sentence destroys all ambiguity.—I agree perpa with lord Coke, and I think every judge. would so decide, upon the general principles of law and evidence, without any resort to. his authority for it; and for this plain and obvious reason : The judges who are by law to decide upon the relevancy or competencyof the proof, in every matter criminal, an civil, have immemorially sanctioned the indispensable necessity of charging the traitorous, intention as the crime, before it was required by the statute of king William.—As the crime is in its nature invisible and inscrutable, not manifested by such conduct as in the eve o! reason is indicative of the intention, which’ constitutes the crime; no overt act is there-, fore held to be sufficient to give jurisdiction, even to a jury to draw the inference in fact, of the traitorous purpose, but such acts from, whence it may be reasonably inferred; and. therefore as the restraint and imprisonment, of a prince has a greater tendency to his de-, struction than in the case of a private man,, such conspiracies are admitted to be laid ag ovett acts, upon this principle, that ifa man does air act front whence either an inevitable or a mainly probable consequence may be ex pected to follow, much more if he persists deliberately in a course of conduct, leading certainly or probably to any given conse uence, it is reasonable to believe that he foresaw such consequence, and by pursuing his purpose with that foreknowledge, the intention to produce the consequence may be. fairly imputed— But then all this is matter of Sact for the jury from the evidence, NOT MATTER OF Law For THE Court; farther than it is the privilege and duty of the judge to direct the attention of the jury to the evidence, and tg state the law as it may result from the dif ferent views the jury may entertain of the facts; and if such acts could not be laid ag overt acts, they could not be offered in evidence; and if they could not be offered ip evidence, the mind of the prisoner, which it was the object of the trial to lay open 99 a elue to his intention, would be shut up and concealed from the jury, whenever the death of the sovereign was sought by circuitous but obvious means, instead of by a direct and murderous machination.— But when they are thus submitted, as matter of charge and evidence to prove the traitorous purpose which is the erime, the security of the king and the subject is equally provided for: all the matter which has a relevancy to the crime, ig chargeable and proveable, not substantively to raise from their establishment a egae inference, but to raise a presumption in fact, capable of being weighed by the jury with alt the circumstances of the transaction, ag offered by the Crown and the Prisoner; their province being finally to say, not what was the possible or the probable consequence of the overt act laid in the Indictment, but whether it has brought them to a safe and conscientious judgment of the guilt of the Prisoner; i. e. of his guilt in compassing the death of the king, which is the treason charged in the Indictment. Lord Hale is, if possible, more direct and explicit upon the subject. He says, page 107, “ The words compass or imagine, ure of a great latitude ; they refcr to the purpose or design of the MIND oR wILt, though the purpose or design takes not effect: but compassing or imagining, singly of itself, is an INTERN aL act, and, without something to mantrest it, could not possibly fall under any judicial cognizance but of God alone; and therefore this statute requires such AW OVERT acT as may render the compassing or imagining capable of a trial and sentence by Auman jidicatures. Now can any nan possibly derive from such a writing (proceedin| too from an author of the character of Lor Hale), that an overt act of compassing, might in his judgment be an act committed inadvertently without the intention? Can any man gather from it, that a man, by falling into bad company, can be drawn in to be ilty of this species of treason by rash confier while the love of his Sovereign was glowing in his bosom
ERSKINE 8653 Gentlemen, all I am asking, however, from my argument (and I defy any power of reason upon earth to move me from it), is this: that the Prisoner being charged with intending the King’s death, you are to find whether this charge be founded or unfounded: and that therefore, put upon the record what else you will,—prove what you will,—read these books over and over again,—and let us stand here a year and a day in discoursing concerning them, —still the question must return at last to what you and you on y can resolve—Is he guilty of that base detestable intention to destroy the King? Nort whether you incline to believe that he is guilty; nor whether you suspect, nor whether it be probable ; xor whether he may be Guitty; no, but that pRoveaBLy HE Is Gurity. If you can say this upon the evidence, it is your duty to say 0, and you may, with a tranquil conscience, return to your families ; though by yonr judgment the unhappy object of it must return no more to his
ERSKINE 8655 But let us return to the subject, and pursue the doctrine of lord Hale upon the true interpretation of the term overt act, as applicable to this branch of treason. Lord Hale says,. and I do beseech most. earnestly the attention of the Court and Jury to this passage—“ If men conspire the death of the king,.and thereupon provide weapons, or send letters,. this is an overt act within the statute.’ Take this to picces, and what does it amount to
ERSKINE 8657 Gentlemen, the reason of the thing is so pably and invincibly in favour of this analogy, that it never met with a direct opposition. The attorney general himself distinctly admits it in one part of his address to you, though he seems to deny it in another
ERSKINE 8659 taco principal overt acts are insisted on. He does not consider the overt act of conspiracy and consultation to bethe treason, but evidence (as it undoubtedly was in that case) to prove the compassing thedeath. ‘The chief justice then states the two overt acts above mentioned, and sums up the evidence for and against the prisoner, and leaves the intention to the jury as matter of fuct
ERSKINE 8661 Ju 
ERSKINE 8662 But what sort of war is it, the bare to get it repealed; this is a levying war, and treason, THOUGH THE PURPOSING AND DESIGNING OF IT 1s Not so. So when they endeavour, m great numbers, witH FoRcE, tomake reformation of their own heads, without pursuing the methods of the law, that is a leoying war, BUT THE PUBPOSE AND DESIGNING iS NoT 80. But if there be, as I told you, a purpose and design To pESTroy THE Kino, aNnb (not or to depose him, but and to depose him) “ to depose him from his throne, which is proposed and designed to be effected by war thut is to be levied ; such a conspiracy and consultation to levy war FoR THE BRINGING THIS TO Pass (i. e. for bringing the king’s death to pass) “ ts an overt act of high treason. So that, gentlemen, as to that objection which he makes, IN POINT OF LAW, it ts of no force, if there be evidence sufficient to convince you that he did conspire to levy war FOR SUCH AN END. And he concludes by again leaving the intention expressly to the 
ERSKINE 8663 Itis rue END THEREFORE FOR WHIcH the war is to be levied, and not the conspiracy to do any act which the law considers as a levying of war, that constitutes an overt act uf treason against the king's life
ERSKINE 8665 What is this but to say that the king’s sacred life is guarded by higher sanctions than the ordinary laws, because of its more inseparable connexion with the public security, and that an atlempt to destroy it is therefore made treason against the state? But the attorney general is, I am sure, too correct in his logic to say, . that the converse of the proposition is therefore maintained, and that an attack upon the king’s authority, without design upon his rson, is affirmed by the same expression to treason against his life. His correct and enlarged mind is incapable of such confusion of ideas. 
ERSKINE 8666 But it is time to quit what fell from me upon this occasion, in order to examine the ; iement of the Court; and to clothe mysel with the authority of that great and venerable magistrate, whose memory will always be dear to me, not only from the eminent services he rendered to his country in the administration of her justice, but on account of the personal peed and reverence I had for him wheo iving. 
ERSKINE 8667 Lord Mansfield, in delivering the law to the jury upon lord George lon’s trial (I areal to the trial itself, and to Mr. Justice Buller, now present, who agreed in the judgment), expressly distinguished between the safety provided for the king’s natural persoz, by the first branch of the statute, and the security of his executive power under tbe second. That great judge never had an idea that the natural person of the king, and the majesty of the king, were the same thing, nor that the treasons against them were syponimous: he knew, on the contrary, for he knew all that was to be known, that assubstantive crimes they never had been blended. I will read his own words : “ There are two kinds of levying war: one against the person of the king: to imprison, to dethrone, or to kil him ; or to make him change measures, of Temove counsellors : the other, which issaid to be levied against the majesty of the king, or, in other words, against him in his regal capacity: as when a muttitude rise and assemble to attain by force and violence apy object of a general public nature; that 1 levying war against the majesty of the king; aud inost reasonably so held, because it to dissolve all the bonds of society, to dest prepay and to overturn government; 
ERSKINE 8668 yy force of atlas, to restrain the king from reigning according to law. But then observe, gentlemen, the war must be actuelly levied ; and here again I appeal to Mr. Justice Buller, for the words of lord Mansfield, expressly referring for what he said to the authority of Lord Holt, in sir John Freind’s case, already cited: “ Lord chief justice Holt, in sir John Freind’s case, says : “ If persons do assemble themselves and act with force, in opposition to some law which they think in‘convenient, and hope thereby to get it re pealed, this is a levying war and treason.’ In the present caset it does not rest upon a0 implication that they hoped by opposition to a law to get it repealed; but the prosecution proceeds upon the direct ground, that the object was, by force and violence, to com legislature to repeal alaw; andtherefo without any doubt, I tell you the joint opinion of us all, that, if this multitude assembled, with intent by acts of force and violence, t0 compel the legislature to repeal a law, it 1s high treason. Let these words of Mansfield be taken down, and then show me the man, let his rank and capacity be they may, who can remove me from the foun dation on which I stand, when I maintain that a conspiracy to levy war for the objects of reformation, is not only not the high treason charged by this indictment, when not directly pointed against the king’s person, but that even the actual: levying it would not amount to the constitution of the crime. But this is the least material part of lord Mansfield's judgment, as applicable to the present question ; for he expressly considers THE 1NTextTIon of the prisoner, whatever be the act of treason alleged against him, to be all in all. —So far from holding the probable or even inevitable consequence of the thing done as constituting the quality of the act, he pie: nounces them to be nothing as separated from the criminal-design to produce them
ERSKINE 8670 “Having premised these several propositions. and principles, the subject matter for your consideration naturally resolves itself into two points : 
ERSKINE 8671 “ First, Whether this multitude did assemble and commit acts of violence, witn intent to terrify and compel the legislature to repeal the act called sirGeorge Savile’s
ERSKINE 8673 “ Whether the prisoner at the bar incited, encouraged, promoted, or assisted in raisin; this insurrection, and the terror they carri with them, wiTH THE INTENT of forcing a repeal of this law. 
ERSKINE 8674 “ Upon these two points, which you will call your attention to, depends the fate of this trial; for if either the multitude had no such intent, or supposing they had, if the prisoner was no cause, did not excite, and took no part in conducting, counselling, or fomenting the insurrection, the prisoner ought to be-ac quitted : and there is no pretence that he personally concurred in any act of violence. 
ERSKINE 8675 I therefore consider the case of lord Gordon, as a direct authority in my favour. 
ERSKINE 8676 To show that a conspiracy to depose the king, independently of ulterior intention against his life, is high treason within the statute, the attorney general next supposes that traitors had conspired to depose king William, but still to preserve him as stadtholder in Holland, and asks whether that conspiracy would not be a compassing his death: to that question I answer, that it would not have been a sunt ating the death of ine William, provided the conspirators coul have convinced the jury that their firm and bond fide intention was, to proceed no farther, and that, under that belief and impression, the jury (as they lawfully might) had negaead by their finding, the fact of the intention against the king’s natural existence
ERSKINE 8678 Gentlemen, I hope I have now a right to consider that the existence of the high treason charged against the unfortunate man before 
ERSKINE 8679 18 a matter of fact for your consideration upon the evidence
ERSKINE 8681 Gentlemen, the persons named in the iniment, are charged with a conspiracy to subvert the rale, order, and government of this country; and it is material that you should observe most particularly the means by which it alleges this purpose was to be aecomplished
ERSKINE 8683 Turs rnrention is therefore the whole cause—for the charge is notthe agreement to hold a convention, which it is notorious, self evident, and even admitted that they intended to hold; but the agreement to hold it for the purpose alleged, of assuming all the authority the state, and in fulfilment of the main intention against the life of the king, Unless, therefore, you can collect this double intention from the evidence before you, the indietment is not med. 
ERSKINE 8684 Gentlemen, the charge being of a conspiracy, which, if made out in point of fact, o&the government, and subversive of its involved’ beyorid‘all controversy, and within the certain knowledge of the conspirators, the lives of every soul that was nee in it; the first observation which I shall make to you (hecause in reason it ought to ptecede all others) is, that every act ore by the prsoners, and every sentence written by them, in the remotest degree connected with the 
ERSKINE 8685 ‘charge, or offered in evidence to it, were done and written in the public face of the world: the transactions wirich const tute the whole body of the proof, were not those of a day, but in regular series for tro years together; they were not the peculiar transaction of the prisoners, but of immense bodies of the king’s subjects, in various of the kingdom, assembled without the smallest reserve, and giving to the public, through the channel of the daily newspapers a minute and regular journal of their whole proceedings. Not a syllable have we heard read, in the week’s imprisonment we hare suffered, that we had not all of us read for months and months before the prosecution was heard of; and which, if we are not suffciently satiated, we may read again upon the file of every coffee-house in the Fingdomtt is admitted distinetly by the crown, that arform in the House of Commons is the ostensible purpose of all the proceedings laid before you; and that the attzinment of that object only, is the grammatical sense of the great body of the written evidence
ERSKINE 8687 fore you, had never occurred to other persons at times, or, if not new, they had only existed in the history of former conspiracies, I should be afraid you would suspect, at least, that the authors of them were plotters of misehief
ERSKINE 8689 Bey isonet before you, up to the very od of his confinement. 
ERSKINE 8690  Gemlemen, the duke of Richmond’s plan wis dalversal suffrage ad annual parlia
ERSKINE 8691 mats; and urged too with a boldness, which, when the comparison comes to be made, wilt leave in the back ground the strongest figures in the writings on the table—I do not say this sarcastically ; I mean to speak with the greatest respect of his Grace, both with regard to the wisdom and integrity of his conduct 3 for although I have always thought in politics with the illustrious person whose letter wag read to you; although I think, with Mr. Fox, that annual parliaments and universal suffrage would be nothing like an improvement in the constitution ; yet I confess that I find it easier to say so than to answer the duke of Rich. mond’s arguments on the subject; and I must say besides, speaking of his grace from a long personal knowledge, which began when I was counsel for his relation lord Keppel, that, ine dependently of his illustrious rank, which secures hin against the imputation of trifling with its existence, he is a person of an enlarged understanding, of extensive readin and of much reflection; and that his boo cannot therefore be considered as the effusion of rashnessand folly, but as the well-weighed, though perhaps erroneous, conclusions drawn from the actual condition of our affairs, viz. that without a speedy and essential reform in parliament (and there my opinion goes along with him) the very being of the country, as a reat nation, would be last. This plan of the uke of Richmond was the grand main spring of every proceeding we have to deal with; you, have fea a great number of loose conversations reported from societies, on which no reliance can be had; sometimes they have been gare bled by spies, sometimes misrepresented by ignorance ; and even, if correct, have fres quently been the extravagances of unknown individuals, not even uttered in the presencd of the prisoner, and totally unconnected with any design; for whenever their proceeds’ are appealed to, and their real object examined; by living members of them, brought beford you by the crown, to testify them under thd most solemn obligations of truth, they appear tohave been following, in form and in subs stance, the plans adopted within our memories, not only by the duke of Richmond, but by hans reds of the most eminent men in the. kingdom, The duke of Richmond formally published his lan of reform in the year 1780, in a letter to ieutenant colonel Sharman, who was at that time practically employed upon the same object in Ireland; and this 1s a most material of the case ; because yoware desired to behevd that the terms Conventson, and Deteeares, and the holding the one, and sending the other; were all collected from what had recently Ws ned. in France, and. were meant as the ormal introduction of her republican constis tution: but they who desire you to believd all this, do not believe it themselves; because they know certainly, and it has indeed already been proved by-their own witnesses, that conventions of reformers were held in Ireland, and delegates regularly sent to them, while? France was under the dominion of ber ancien 
ERSKINE 8692 ‘F 
ERSKINE 8693 government.—They knew full well that colonel Sharman, to whom the duke’s letter was addressed, was at that very moment supperting a convention in Ireland, at the head of ten thousand men inarms, for the defence of their country, without any commission from the king, any more than poor Franklow had, who is now in Newgate, for rcgimenting sixty.—These volunteers asserted and saved the liberties of Ireland; and the king would, at this day, have had no more subjects iu Ireland than he now has in America, if they had been treated as traitors to the government.—It was never imputed to colonel Sharmar and the volunteers, that they were in rebellion ,—yet they had arms in their hands, which the prisoners never dreamed of having; whilst a grand general convention was actually sitting under their auspices at the royal Exchange of Dublin, attanted by regular delegates from all the counties in Ireland.—And who were these dclegates iI will presently tear off their names from this paper, and hand it to you.—They were the greatest, the best, and proudest names in Ireland; men who had the wisdom to reflect (before it was too late for reflection) that greatness is not to be supported by tilting at interiors, till, by the separation of the higher from the lower orders of mankind, every distinction is swept away in the tempest of revolution; but in the happy harmonization of the whole community ; by conferring upon the people their rights ; sure of receiving the auspicious return of affection, and of ensusing the stability of the government, which is erected upon that just and natural basis. Gentlemen, they who put this tortured construction on conventions and deTogas, know also that repeated meetings of reforming societies, both in England and Scotland, had assumed about the same time the style of conventions, and had been attended by regular delegates, long before the phrase or could have, any existence in France; and that upon the very model of these former associations, a formal convention was actually sitting at Edinburgh, with the lord chief baron of Scotland in the chair, for promoting areform in parliament, at the very moment the Scotch Convention, following its example, assumed that title. Toreturn to this letter of the duke of Richmond : It was written to colonel Sharman, in answer to a letter to his grace, desiring to know his plan of reform, which he accordingly communicated by the letter which is in evidence ; and which plan was neither more nor less than that adopted by the prisoners, of surrounding parliament (unwilling to reform its own corruptians), yor by armed men, or by importunate multitudes, but by the still and universal voice of a whole people crarm1NG THEIR KNOWN AND UNALIENABLE RIGHTS. —Thisis so precisely the plan of the dake of Richmond, that I have almost borrowed his expressions. Lis grace says, “ The lesser reform has been attempted with every possible advantage in its favour; not enly from the zealous support of the advocates for a more effectual one, but from the assistance of men of great weight, both in and out of power. But with all these temperaments and helps it has failed. Not one proselyte has been gained from corruption, nor has the least ray of hope been held out from any quarter that the House of Commons was inclined to any other mode of reform. The weight of corruption has crushed this more gentle, as it would have defeated any more effieacious plan in the same circumstances. From that quarter, therefore, I have nothing to hope. Ir 1s rrow THE PEOPLE AT LARGE THAT I EXPECT anY Goop: and I am convinced, that the only way to make them feel that they are really porated in jhe business, eth contend for their full, clear, and indisputable rights nivel venetachetion Now how ra this doctrine apply to the defence of the pre soner
ERSKINE 8695 But are the crown’s witnesses worthy of credit
ERSKINE 8697 fthere be ground to consider the professed purpose of any of these associations, reform in parliament, as mere colour, and as & pretext held out in order to cover deeper designs—designs against the whole constitution and government of the country; the case of those embarked in such designs is that which T have already considered. Whether this be so, Ae not, is mere matter os fact; as to which I shall only remind you, that an inquiry into acharge of this nature, which undertakes to make out that the ostensible purpose is a mere veil, under which is concealed a traitorous conspiracy, requires cool and deliberate examination, and the most attentive consideration; gnd that the result should be perfectly clear and satisfactory. In the affairs of common life, no man is justified in imputing to another a meaning contrary to what he himself exbut upon the fullest evidence
ERSKINE 8699 Gentlemen, it has been too much the fashion of late to overlook the genuine source of all human authority, but more especially totally to forget the character of the British House of Commons as a representative of the people; whether this has arisen trom that assembly’s having itself forgotten it, would be indecent for me to inquire into or to insinuate; but I shall preface the authorities which I-mean to collect in support of the prisoner, with the opinion on that subject of & truly celebrated writer, of whom I wish to speak with great respect: I should, indeed, be ashamed, particularly at this moment, to name him invidiously, while he is bending the pressure of a domestic misfortune, which no man out of his own family laments more sincerely than I do
ERSKINE 8701 The history and character of the English House of Commons was formerly thus described by Mr. Burke: “‘ The House of Commons was supposed originally to be no part of the standing government of this country, but was considered asa control issuing immediately from the people, and speedily to be resolved iato the mass from whence it arose: in this respect it was in the higher part of govern: ment what juries are in the lower. The capacity of a magisteate being transitory, and that of a citizen permanent, the latter capa city, it was hoped, would of course preponderate in all discussions, not only between the people and the standing authority of the Crown, but between the people and the fleeting authority of the House of Commons itself. It was hoped, that, being of a middle nature, Letween subject and government, they would feel with a more tender and a nearer interest, every thing that concerned the people, than the other remoter and more permanent parts of legislature. 
ERSKINE 8702 ‘“ Whatever alterations time and the necessary accommodation of business may have introduced, this character can never be sustained, unless the House of Commons shall be made to bear some stamp of the actual disposition of the ple at large: it would (among public misfortunes) ‘be an evil. more natural and tolerable, that the House of Commons should be infected witb every epidemical frenay of the people, as this would indicate some consanguinity, some sympathy of nature with their constituents, than that they should, in all cases, be wholly untouched by the opinions and feelings of the’ people out of dovrs. By this want of sympathy, they would cease to be a House of Commons. 
ERSKINE 8703 “ The virtue, spirit, and essence of a House of Cummons, consists in its being the express imige of the feelings of the nation. It was Not instituted to be a control zpon the people, as of late it has been taught, by a doctrine of the most pernicious tendency, but as a control for the people. ; 
ERSKINE 8704 He then goes on to say, that to give a technical shape, a colour, dress, and duration o popular opinion, is the true office of a House of Cummons.—Mr. Burke is unquestionably correct; the control upon the people is the King’s majesty, and the hereditary privileges of the peers; the balance of the state is the control ror the people upon both, in the existence of the House of Commons; but how can that control exist ror the people, unless they have the actual electiun of the House of Commons, which, it is most notorious, they have not
ERSKINE 8706 Commons, by an honourable friend of mine Dow present, whuse motion J had the honour to second, where it appeared that 12,000 people return near a majority of the House of Commons, and thuse again, under the control of about 200. But though these facts were admitted, all redress, and even discussion, was tefused
ERSKINE 8708 of Commons that so conducts itself, it is not for me to pronounce ; J will appeal, therefore, to Mr. Burke, who says, “ that a House of Commons, which in all disputes between the people and administration presumes against the people, which punishes their disorders, but refuses even to inquire into their provocations, is an unnatural, monstrous state of things in the constitution. : 
ERSKINE 8709 But this is nothing: Mr. Burke goes on afterwards to give a more full description of Parliament, and in stronger language (let the Solicitor General take it down for his reply), than any that has been employed by those who are to be tried at present as conspirators against its existence
ERSKINE 8711 “ Tt must be always the wish of ap uncon stitutional statesman, that a House of Com mons, who are entirely dependent upon him should have every right ofthe people entirely dependent upon their pleasure. For it was soon discovered that the forms of a free, and the ends of an arbitrary government, wer things not altogether incompatible. 
ERSKINE 8712 “ The power of the Crown, almast dead and rotten as prerogative, has oe Up anew, with much more strength and far less odium, under the name of influence
ERSKINE 8714 What is this but saying that the House of Commons is a settled and scandalous abase fastened upon the people, instead of being an antagonist power for their protection; an odious instrument of power in the hands of the Crown, instead of a popular balance against it?’ Did Mr. Burke mean that the prerogative of the crown, properly b and exercised, was an antiquated prejudice? Certainly not; because his attachment toa properly balauced monarchy is notorious, why then is it to be fastened upon the Bas soners, that they stigmatize monarchy, they also exclaim ma ainst its corruptions? In the same manner, aloe he speaks of the abuses of parliament, would it be fair in Mr. Burke to argue, from the strict legal meaning of the expression, that he included, in the censure on parliament, the king's person, of majesty, which is part of the parliament? Ia examining the work of an author you mast collect the sense of his expressions from ths subject he is discussing ; and if he is wns of the House of Commons as it affects structure and efficacy of the government, you ought to understand. the word parliament s2 as to meet the sense and obvious roeaning of the writer—Why then is this common ju tice refused to others
ERSKINE 8716 A letter has been read in evidence from Mr. Hardy to Mr. Fos, where he says their object was universal representation. Did Mr. Fox suppose, when he received this letter, that it was from a nest of republicans, clamouring publicly for an universal representative constitution like that of France 
ERSKINE 8718 I will now, gentlemen, resume the reading of another. part. of Mc. Burke, and a pretty. account. it is of this same parliament: “ They. who will not conform their conduct. to the public good, and. cannot support it by. the. Prerogative of the. crown, have adopted a new. 
ERSKINE 8719 They have totally abandoned the shattered and old-fashioned fortress of prerogalve, and made a lodgment in the strong-hold of parliament itself, If they have any evil design to which there is no ordinary legal wer cdmmensurate, they bring it into pariament.. There the whole is executed trom the beginning to the end: and the power of obtaining their object absolute, and the safety in the proceeding perfect ; no rules to confine, nor after-reckonings to terrify. For parliament cannot, with any great propriety, punieh atherg, far things in which they themselves have been accomplices. Thus its control upon the executive power is lost. 
ERSKINE 8720 This is a proposition universal. It is not that the popular contral was lost under this or that administration, but, GenERaLty, that the people have no control in the House of Commons. Let any map stand up and say that he disbelieves this to be the case; I believe he would fiad nobody. to believe him, Mr. Burke pursues the subject thus: he distempers of monarchy. were the great subjects Cf appreension and redress ip the dust century—in this, the distempess of parliament. Here the word parliament, and the abuses belonging to it, are put in express oposition to the monarchy, and cannot there ore comprehend it: the distempers of parliament then are objects of setious apprehension and redress. What distempers? Not of this or that year, but tbe habitual distempers of parliament; and then follows the nature of the remedy, which shows that the prisoners are not singular in thinking that it is by rae VOICE OF THE PEOPLE ONLY that parliament can be corrected. “It is not in parliament alone, says Mr. Burke, “ that the remedy for parliamentary disorders can be completed; and hardly indeed can it begin there. Until a confidence in government is re-established, the people ought to be excited to a more strict and detailed attention to the conduct of their representatives. Standards for judging more systematically upon their conduct ought to be settled in the meetings of counties. and corporations, and yent and correct lists of. the voters in all important questions, ought to be procured. By such means something may be done.’ 
ERSKINE 8721 It was the same sense of the impossibility of a reform in parliament, without a general expression of the wishes of the people, that dic tated: the duke of Richmond’s ‘Letter : all the petitions in 1780 had been rejected: by parliament; this made the duke of Richmond exclaim, that from that qnarter no redress was to be expected, and that from. the people alone he expected any good ; and he, therefore, expressly invited them to claim and to assert an’ equal representation as their indubitable and unalienable birth-right: how to assert their rights, when parliament had already refused them without even the hope, as the duke expressed it, of: listening to them gny more? 
ERSKINE 8722 Could the people’s rights, under such circumstances, be asserted without rebellion? Certainly they might: for rebellion is, when bands of men within a state oppose themselves, by violence, to the general will, as exressed or implied by the public authority ; 
ERSKINE 8723 ut the sense of a whole people, peaceably collected, and operating by its natural and certain effect upon the public councils, is not rebellion, but is paramount to, and the parent of, authority itself. 
ERSKINE 8724 Gentlemen, I am neither vindicating, nor speaking, the language of inflammation or discontent; I shall speak nothing that can disturb the order of the state; I am full of devo‘tion to its dignity and tranquillity, and would not for worlds let fall an expression in this or in any other place that could lead to disturbance or disorder: but for that very reason, I speak with firmness of THE RIGHTS OF THE PEOPLE, and am anxious for the redress of their complaints ; because J believe a system of attention to them to be a far better security and establishment of every part of the government, than those that are employed to preserve them.—The state and government of a country rest, for their sappart, on the great body of the people, and I hope never to hear it repeated, in any court of justice, that peaceably to convene the people upon the subject of their own potaleges can lead to the destruction of the king: they are the king’s worst enemies who hold this language.—It is a most dangerous principle, that the crown is in jeopardy, if the people are acquainted with their rights, and that the collecting them together to consider of them, leads inevitably to the destruction of the sovereign.— Do these gentlemen mean to say that the king sits upon his throne without the consent, and in defiance of the wishes of the great body of his people, and that he is kept upon it by a few individuals who call themselves his friends, in exclusion of the rest of his subjects 
ERSKINE 8726 Gentlemen, I am not driven to defend every expression; some of them are undoubtedly improper, rash, and inflammatory ; but I see nothing in the whole taken together, even if it were connected with the prisoner, that goes atallto an evil purpose in the writer. But Mr. Attorney General has remarked upon this proceeding at Sheffield (and whatever falls from a person of his rank and just estimation, deserves great attention), he has remarked that it is quite apparent they had resolved not to petition.—They bad certainly resolved not at thut season to petition, and that seems the utmost which can be maintained from the evidence.—But supposing they bad negatived the measure altogether ; is there no way by which the people may actively asso ciate for the purposes of a retorm in parlisment, but to consider ofa petition to the House of Commons? Might they not legally as semble to consider the state of their liberties, and the conduct of their representatives 
ERSKINE 8728 deny we are their constituents; not for those who question our clear and natural right to be equally represented ?"—Since it is illegal to carry up petitions, and unwise to transact any public business attended by multitudes, because it tends to tumult and disorder, may they not, for that very reason, depute, as they have done, the most trusty of their societies to meet with one another to consider, without the specific object of petitions, how they ma: 
ERSKINE 8729 claim, by means which are constitutional, their imprescriptible rights? And here I must advert to an argument employed by the attorney general, that the views of the societies towards universal suffrage, carried in themselves (however sought to be effected) animplied force upon parliament : for that, supposing by invading It with the vast pressure, not of the fips arm, but of the public sentiment of the nation, the influence of which upon that assembly is admitted ought to be weighty, it could have prevailed upon the Commons to carry up a bill to the king for universal representation and annual parliaments, his majesty was bound to reject it; and could not, without a breach of his coronation oath, consent to pass it into an act; I cannot conceive where my friend met with this law, or what he can possibly mean by asserting that the king cannot, consistently with his: coronation cath, consent to any law thatcan be stated orimagined, presented to him 4s the act of the two Houses of parliament: he could not, indeed, consent to abill sent up to him framed bya convention of delegates assuming legislative functions; and if my friend could have proved that the societies, sitting as a parliament, had sent up such a bill to his majesty, I should have thought the prisoner, as a member of such a parliament, was at least in a different situation from that in which he stands at present: but as this is not one of the chimeras whose existence is contended for, I return back to ask, .upon what authority it is maintained, that universal representation and annual parliaments could not be consented to by the king, in conformity to the wishes of theother branches of the Jegislature : on the contrary, one of the greatest men that this country ever saw considered universal representation to be such an inherent part of the constitution as that the king himself might grant it by his prerogative, even without the Lords and Commons; and I have never heard the position denied upon any other footing than the union with Scotland
ERSKINE 8731 157 and 158—“ Things of this world are in so’ constant a flux, that nothing remains long im the same state. Thus people, riches, trade, power, change their stations, flourishing mighty cities come to ruin, and prove, in time, neglected, desolate corners, whilst other unfrequented places grow into populous countries, hlled with wealth and inhabitants. But things not always changing equally, and private interest often keeping up customs and privileges, when the reasons of them are ceased, it often comes to pass, that in governments, where part of the legislative consists of representatives chosen by the people, that in tract of time this representation becomes very unequal and igpreorrisuate to the reasons it was at first established upon. To what gross absurdities the following of custom, when reason has left it, may lead, we may be satisfied, when we see the bare name of a town, of which there remains not so muchas the ruins, where scarce so much housing as a sheepcote, or more inhabitants than a shepherd is to be found, sends as many representatives to the grand assembly of law-makers, as a whole county, numerous in people, and powerful in Tiches. This strangers stand amazed at, and’ every one must confess needs a remedy. 
ERSKINE 8732 “ Salus populi suprema lex, is certainly so just and fundamental a rule, that he who sincerely follows it, cannot dangerously err. If, therefore, the executive, who has the power of convoking the legislative, observin: rather the true proportion, than fashion of} representation, regulates, not by old custom, but true reason, the number of members in all places that have a right to be distinctly represented, which no part of the people, however incorporated, can pretend to, but in proportion to the assistance which it affords to the public, it cannot be judged to have set up a new legislative, but to have restored the old and true one, and to have rectified the disorders which succession of time had insensibly, as well as inevitably introduced ; for it being the interest as well as intention of the people to have a fair and equal representative; whoever brings it nearest to that, is an undoubted fricnd to, and establisher of the government, and cannot miss the consent and approbation of the community; preraative lang nothing but a power, in the ands of the prince, to provide for the public good, in such cases, which depending upon’ unforeseen and uncertain occurrences, certain and unalterable laws could not safely direct ; whatsoever shall be done manifestly for the good of the people, and the establishing the government upon its true foundations, is, and always will be, just prerogative. Whatsoever cannot but be acknowledged to be of advantage to the society, and people in general, upon just and lasting measures, will always, when done, justify itself; and whenever the ople shall choose their representatives upon just and undeniably equal measures, suitable to the original frame of the government, it cannot be doubted to be the will and act ofwhole public, and of which, to avoid the very the society, whoever permitted or caused them so to do. But as the very idea of universal suffrage seems now to be considered not only to be figeiraes to, but absolutely destructive of monarchy, you certainly ought to be reminded that the book which I have been reading, and which my friend kindly gives me a note to remind you of, was written by its immortal author in defence of king WilTiam’s title to the crown; and when Dr. Sacheverel ventured to broach those doctrines of power and non-resistance, which, under the same establishments, have now become so unaccountably popular; he was impeached by the pecple’s representatives for denying their rights, which had been asserted and established at the glorious era of the Revolution. 
ERSKINE 8733 Gentlemen, if I were to go through all the matter which I have collected upon this subject, or which obtrudes it upon my mind from common reading, in a thousand direce tions, my strength would fail long before my duty was fulfilled; I had very little when E came into court, and I have abundantly less already; I must, therefore, manage what Temains to the best advantage; and shall proceed, now, to take a view of such parts of the evidence as appear to me to be the most material for the proper understanding of the case; I have had no opportunity of considering it, but in the interval which the indulgence of the Court, and your own, has afforded me, and that has been but for a very few hours this sbe p but it occurred to me, that the best use I could make of the time iven to me was, if possible, to disembroil is chaos ; to throw out of view every thing irrelevant, which only tended to bring chaos back again—to take what remained in order of time—to select certain stages and resting places—to review the effect of the transactions, ds brought before us, and then to see how the written evidence is explained by the testimony of the witnesses who have been examined 
ERSKINE 8734 The origin of the Constitutional Society not Roving bod laid im evidence before you, the chief thing both in point of date, and as applying to show the objects of the different bodies is the original address and resolution of the Corresponding: Society on its institution, and when it first to correspond with the vther, which formerly ranked amongst its members so many illustrious persons ; and before we look to the matter of this institution, let us: recollect that the objects of it were given without reserve to the public, as containing the principles of the association ; and I may — with demanding, whether the-annals of this country, or indeed the uni versal history of mankind, afford an ‘instance of a plot-and conspiracy vo! ily given up in its very infancy to government, and the tn pied: that has happened, the arraignment of conduct at a future period, and the imputation of secrecy where no secret was intended, a Tegular notice by letter was left with the secretary of state, and a receipt taken at the public office, as a proof of the publicity of their (pee and the sense they entertained of their innocence. For the views and objects of the society, we must look to the institution itself, which you are, indecd, desired to look at by the crown; for their in tentions are not considercd as deceptions in this instance, but as plainly revealed by the very writing itself. 
ERSKINE 8735 Gentlemen, there was a sort of silence in the Court—I do not say an affected one, for E mean no possible offente to any one, but there seemed to be an effect expected from beginning, not with the address itself, but with the very bold motto to it, though in verse : 
ERSKINE 8736 “ Unblest by virtue, government a league 
ERSKINE 8737 “ Becomes, a circling junto of the great 
ERSKINE 8738 “ To rob by law; religion mild, a yoke o tame the stooping soul, a trick of state 
ERSKINE 8739 “ To mask their rapine, and to share the prey. ‘“‘ Without it, what are senates, but a face 
ERSKINE 8740 “ Of consultation deep and reason free, 
ERSKINE 8741 “ While the determin’d voice and heart are sold? “ What, boasted freedom, buta soundingname 2? “ And what election, but a market vile, 
ERSKINE 8742 SOf slaves self-barter’d ? 
ERSKINE 8743 I almost fancy L heard them say to me, What think you of that to set out with — Show me the parallel of that —Gentlemen, I am sorry, for ie credit of the age we live in, to answer, that it is difficult to find the parallel; becanse the age aflords no such poet as he who wrote it: these are the words of Thompson : and it is under the banners of his Peoverbial benevolence, that these men are supposed to be engaging in plams of anarchy: oe murder; Unie “the banners of that great and good man, whose you may still see in the venerable s of Hagley, placed there by the virtuous, accomplished, and public-spirited Lyttelton : the very poem too, written under the auspices of his majesty’s royal father, when heir- apparene to the crown of Great Britain, nay, withm the very walls of Carlton-house, which afforded am asylum to matchless worth and gennis in the person of this great poet; it was under the roof of a Prince or Wates that the poem of Lrserry was written; and what better returm could be given to a prince for his protection, than to blazon, in immortal numbers, the only sure title te the crown he was to wear—rsB FREEDOM OF THE Prope or Great Barrais? And it is to be assumed, forsooth, in the yeat 1794, that the unfettunate prisoner before you was plotting treasom and rebellion, because,’ with a taste and feeling beyond bis hatrbie station, his first proceeding was ushered imo view, under the hallowed sanction of this admirable person, the friend and the defender of the British constitution; whose countrymen ere prepering at this moment (may my name descend amongst them to the it posterity!) to do honour to his immortal memory. Pardon me, gentlemen, for this desultory digression
ERSKINE 8745 Tf wa look at the whole of the institution itself, it exactly corresponds with the plan of the duke of Richmond, as expressed in the letters to colonel Sharman, and to the high sheriff of Sussex: this plan they propose to follow, in a public address to the nation, and all their resolutions are framed for its accomplishment; and I desire to know in what they have departed from either, and what they have done which has not been done before, without blame or censure, in the pursuance of the same object. I am not speaking of the libels they may have written, which the law is open to punish, but what part of their conduct has, as applicable to the subject in uestion, been unprecedented. —I have, at this moment, in my eye, an honourable friend of mine, and a distinguished member of the House of Commons, who, in my own remembrance, I believe in 1780, sat publicly at Guildhall, with many others, some of them magistrates of the city, as a convention of delegates, for the same objects ; and what is etill more in point, just before the convention began to meet at Edinburgh, whose proceedings have been so much relied on, there was a convention regularly assembled, attended b the delegates from all the counties of Scotland, for the express and avowed purpose of alterang (be constitution of parlament; not by rebellion, but by the same means employed by the prisoner: the lord chief baron of Scotland sat in the chair, and was assisted b: some of the first men in that country, an amongst others, by an honourable person to whom I am nearly allied, who is at the very head of the bar in Scotland, and most avowedly attached to the law and the constitution. These gentlemen, whose good intentions never fell into suspicion, had presented a petition for the alteration of election laws, which the House of Commons had rejected, and on the spur of that very rejection they met ina Convention at Edinburgh in 1793 ; and the style of their first meeting was, “A Convention of D tes, chosen from the counties of Scotland, for Altering and Amending the Laws concerning Elections —not for considering how they might be best amended —not for petitioning parliament to amend them ; but for altering and amending the election laws.—These meetings were regularly published, andIwill prove, that their first resolution, as I have read it to you, was brought up to London, and delivered to the editor of the Morning Chronicle by sir Thomes Dundas, lately created a peer of Great Britain, and paid for by him as a public advertisement. Now, suppose any man had imputed treason or sedition:to these honorable persons, what would have been the consequence? They would have been considered as infamous libellers and traducers, and deservedly hooted out of civilized life : why then are different constructions to be put upon similar transactions 
ERSKINE 8747 But it will be said, gentlemen, that all the constitutional privileges of the people are conceded; that their existence was never denied or invaded; and that their right to petition and to meet for the expression of their complaints, founded or unfounded, was never called in question; these, it will be said, are the rights of subjects ; but that the “ rights of man are what alarms them: every one is considered as a traitor who talks about the “rights of man; but this bugbear stands’ upon the same perversion with its fellows. 
ERSKINE 8748 The rights of man are the foundation of all government, and to secure them is the only reason of men’s submitting to be governed, it shall not be fastened upon the unfortunate prisoner at the bar, nor upon any other man, that because these natural rights were asserted in France, by the destruction of a government which oppressed and subverted them, a process happily effected here by slow and imperceptible improvements, that therefore they can only be so asserted in England, where the government, through a gradation of improvement, is well calculated to protect them. We are, fortunately, not driven in this country to the terrible alternatives which were the unhappy lot of France, because we have had a happier destiny in the forms of a frec constitution; this, indeed, is the express language of many of the papers before you, that have been complained of; particularly in one alluded to by the Attorney General, as javing been written by a gentleman with whom am particularly acquainted; and though in that spirited composition there are, perhaps, some expressions proceeding from warmth which he may not desire me critically to justify, yet I will venture to affirm, from my own personal knowledge, that there is nota man in Court more honestly public-spirited and zealously devoted to the constitution of King, Lords, and Commons, than the honourable gentleman I allude to (Felix Vaughan, esq. Tarcister at law). It is the phrase, therefore, and not the sentiment expressed by it, that can alone give justifiable offence ; it is, it seems, a new phrase commencing in revolutions, and never used before in discussing the rights of British subjects, and therefore can only be applied in the sense of those who framed it; but this is-so far from being the truth, that the very phrase sticks in my memory, from the repeated application of it to the rights of subjects, under this and every other establishment, by a gentleman whom you will not suspect of using it in any other sense. The rights of man were considered by “Mr. Burke, at the time that the great uproar was made upon a supposed invasion of the East India Company's charter, to be the foundation of, and paramount to all, the laws and ordinances of a state : the ministry, you may remember, were turned out for Mr. Fox’s India Bill, which their opponents termed an attack upon the chartered rights of man, or, in other words, upon the abuses supported by a monopoly in trade. Hear the sentiments of Mr. Burke, when the NATURAL and CHARTERED rights of men are brought into contest. Mr. Burke, in his speech in the House of Commons, expresscd himself thus : The first objection is, that the bill is an attack on the chartered rights of men. As to this objection, I must observe that the phrase of ‘the chartered rights of men,’ is full of affectation ; and very unusual in the discussion of privileges conferred by charters of the present description. But it is not difficult to discover what end that ambiguous mode of expression, so often reiterated, is meant to answer. 
ERSKINE 8749 he rights of men, that is to say, the natural rights of mankind, are indeed sacred things; and if any public measure is proved mischievously to affect them, the objection ought to be fatal to that measure, even if no charter at all could be set up against it
ERSKINE 8751 The Duke of Richmond also, in his publie letter to the High Sheriff of Sussex, rests the rights of the people of England upon the same horrible and damnable principle of the rights of man.—Let gentlemen, therefore, take care they do not pull down the very authority which they come here to support; let them remember, that his Majesty’s family was called to the Throne upon the very principle, that the ancient Kings of this country had violated those sacred trusts; let them recollect too in what the violation was ch: to exist; it was charged by the Bill of Rights to exist in cruel] ant infamous trials; m the packing of juries; and in disarming the people, whose arms are their unalienable retuge against oppression.—But did the people of England assemble to make this decleration
ERSKINE 8753 The next evidence relied on, after the institution of the Corresponding Society, isa letter written to them from Norwich, dated the 11th of November 1792, with the answer, dated the 26th of the same month : It is asserted, that this correspondence shows, they aimed at nothing less than the total destruction of the monarchy, and that they, therefore veil their intention under covert and ambiguous language. I think, on the other hand, and I shall continue to think so, as long as I am capable of thought, that it was impossible for words to convey more clearly the explicit avowal of their original plan for a constitutional reform in the House of Commons. This letter from Norwich, after congratulating the Corresponding Society. on its institution, asks several questions arising out of the proceedings of other societies in different parts of the kingdom, which they profess not thoroughly to understand. 
ERSKINE 8754 The Sheffield people (they observe) seemed at first determined to support the Duke of Richmond's plan only, but that they had afterwards observed a disposition in them to a more moderate plan of reform proposed by the Friends of the People in London; whilst the Manchester people, by addressing Mr. Paine (whom the Norwich people had not addressed) seemed to be intent on republican principles only; they thercfore-put a question, not at all of distrust, or suspicion, but bone Jide, if ever there was good faith between men, whether the Corresponding Society meant to be satisfied with the plan of the Duke of Richmond? or, whether it was their private design to rip up monarchy by the roots, and place democracy in its stead? Now hear the answer, from whence it is inferred that this last is their intention: they begin their answer with recapitulating the demand of their correspondent, as regularly as a tradesinan, who has had an order for goods, recapitulates the, order that there may be no ambiguity in the refcrence or application of the repl. , and then they say as to the objects they have in view they refer them to their addresses. “ You will thereby see that they mean to disseminate political knowledge, and thereby engage the judicious part of the nation to demand the RecovERY of their tost rights in ANNUAL Parliaments; the members of these Parliaments owing their election to unbought suffrages." They then desire them to be careful to avoid all dispute, and say to them, Put monarchy, democracy, and even religion, quite aside; and “ Let your endeavours go te increase the numbers of those who desire a full and equal representation of the people, and leave to a Parliament, so chosen, to reform all existing abuses; and if they don’t answer, atthe year’s end you may choose others in their stead. The Attorney General says, this is lamely expressed, I, on the other hand, say, that it is not only not lamely expressed, but anxiously worded to put an end to dangerous spcculations.—Leave all theories undiscussed; do not perplex yourselves with abstract questions of government; endeavour practically to get honest representatives, —and if they deceive you—then, what
ERSKINE 8756 When the language of the letter, which is: branded as ambiguous, thus stares them inthe face as an undeniable answer to the, charge, they then have recourse to the oldrefuge of mala fides ; all this they say is but a cover for hidden treason; but I ask you, Gentlemen, in the name of God, and as fair and honest men, what reason upon earth there is to suppose, that the writers of this letter did not mean what they expressed? Are you to pag in a Court of Justice, and n atrial for life, that men write with duplicity in their most confidential correspondence, even to those with whom they are confederated
ERSKINE 8758 The next thing in order which we have to Jook at, is the Convention at Edinburgh—It ir that a letter had been written by Mr. Skirving, who was connected with reformers in Scotland proceeding avowedly upon the duke of Richmond’s plan, proposing that there should be a convention from the societies assembled at Edinburgh : now you will recollect, in the apart that the attorney general considcred all the great original sin of this conspiracy and treason to have originated with the societies in London—that the country societies were only tools in their hands, and that the Edinburgh convention was the commencement of their projects ; and yet it plainly appears that this convention originated from neither of the London societies, but had its beginning at Edinburgh, where, just before, a convention had been sitting for the reform in parliament, attended by the principal persons in Scotland; and surely, without qirerting to the nationality so peculiar to the people of that country, it is not at all suspicious, that, since they were to hold a meeting for similar objects, they should make use of the same style for their association; and that their deputies should be called delegates, when delegates had attended the other convention from all the counties, and whom they were every day looking at in their streets, in the course of the very same year that Skirving wrote his letter on the subject. The views of the Corresponding Society, as they regarded this convention, and consequently the views of the prisoner, must be collected from the written instructions to the delegates, unless they can be falsified by matter which is collateral.—If I constitute an agent, I am bound by what he does, tut ways with this limitation, for what he does within the scope of his agency : If I constitute an agent to buy horses for me, and he commits high treason, it will not, I hope, be argued that Tam to be hanged.—If I constitute an agent for any business that can be stated, and he goes beyond his instructions, he must answer for himself beyond their Bmits; for beyond them he is not my representative.—The acts done, therefore, at the Scotch convention, whatever may be their quality, are evidence to show, that, in point of fact, a certain number of people got toether, and did any thing you choose to call illegal; but, as far as it concerns me, if I am Dot present, you are limited by my instructions and have not advanced a single step upon your journey to convict me: the instructions to Skirving have been read, and speak for themselves; they are strictly legal, and pursue the avowed object of the society; and it will be for the solicitor general to point oat, in his reply, any counter or secret instructions, or any collateral conduct, contradictory of the good faith with which they were written. ‘he instructions are in these words “ The delegates are instructed, on the part of this society, to assist in bringing forward and supporting any constitutional measure for procuring a real representation of the Commons of Great Britain. What do you say, gentlemen, to this language 
ERSKINE 8760 Gentlemen, I declare that I am utterly astonished, on looking at the clock, to find how long I have been speaking; and that; agitated and distressed as I am, I have yet strength enough left for the remainder of my duty; at every peril of my health it shall be exerted; for although, if this cause should es I know T shall have justice done me for the honesty of my intentions; yet what is that to the public and posterity 
ERSKINE 8762 ere, and here only, the lot of man is cast in security : what though authority, established for the ends of justice, may lift itself up against it; what though the House of Commons itself should make an ex-parte declaration of guilt; what though every species of art should be employed to entangle the opi-
ERSKINE 8763 Nnions of the people, which in other countries would be inevitable destruction : yet in England, in enlightened England, all this will not pluck a hair from the head of innocence ; —the jury will still look steadfastly to the law, as the great polar star, 10 direct them in their course: as prudent men they will set no example of disorder, nor pronounce & vere dict of censure on authority, or of approbation or disapprobation beyond their judicial province: but, on the other hand, they will make no political sacrifice, but deliver a plain, honest man, from the toils of injustice—When your verdict is pronounced, this will be the judgment ofthe world; and if any amongst ourselves are alienated in their affections to government, nothing will be so likely to reclaim them : they will say—Whatever we have lost of our control in parliament, we have yet a sheetanchor remaining to hold the vessel of the state amidst contending storms: we have still, thank God, a sound administration of justice secured to us, in the independence of the judges, in the rights of enlightened juries, and in the integrity of the bar; ready at all times, and upon every possible occasion, whatever may bethe consequences to themselves, to stand forward in defence of the meanest man in England, when brought furjudgment before the laws of the country. 
ERSKINE 8764 To return to this Scotch Convention— Their papers were all seized hy government. — What their proceedings were they best know: we can only see what, parts they choose to show us: but, from what we have seen, does any man seriously believe, that this meeting at Edinburgh meant to assume and to maintain by force all the functions and authorities of the state 
ERSKINE 8766 account.—ts it to be endured, gentlemen, that men should gravely say, that this body assumed to itself the offices of parliament 
ERSKINE 8768 ‘Here again he feels the advantage of our free administration of justice : this proposition on which so much depends, is not to be Teasoned upon on parchment, to be delivered Privately to magistrates for private judgment : ho—he has the privilege of appealing aloud, as he now appeals by me, to an enlightened assembly full of eyes, and ears, and intelli- ; gence where speaking to a jury is, ina manner, speaking tu a nation at large, and flying for sanctuary to its universal justice. Gentlemen, the very work of Mr. Paine, under the banners of which this supposed rebellion was set on foot, refutes the charge it is brought forward to support: for Mr. Paine, in his preface, and throughout his whole book, Teprobates the use of torce against the most evil governments; the contrary was never imputed to him.—If his book had becn written in pursuance of the design of force and rebelin, with which it is now sought to be connected, he would, like the prisoners, have been charged with an overt act of high treason; but such a proceeding was never thought of.— Mr. Pairie was indicted for a misdemeanor, and the misdemeanor was argued to consist not in the falsehood that a nation has no right to choose or alter its government, but in seditiously exciting the nation, without cause, to exercise that right.—A learned lord (lord chief baron Macdonald), now on this bench, addressed the jury as attorney general upon this principle: his language was this: The question is not, what the people have a right todo, for the people are, undoubtedly, the foundation and origin of all government ; but the charge is, for seditiously calling upon the people, without cause or reason, to exercise a right which would be sedition, supposing the right to be in them: for though the people might have a right to do the thing suggested, and though they are not excited to the doing it by force and rebellion, yet, as the suggestion goes to unsettle the state, the propagation of such doctrines is seditious. There is No other way, undoubtedly, of describing that charge. Iam not here entering into the application of it to Mr. Paine, whose counsel I was, and who has been tried already. ‘To say that the people have a right to change their perenne is indeed a truism; every body nows it, and they exercised the right, otherwise the king could not have had his establishment amongst us, If, therefore, I stir up individuals to oppose by force the general will, seated in the government, it may be treason; but to induce changes in a government, by exposing toa whole nation its errors and imperfections, can have no bearing upon such an offence : the utmost which can be made of it is a misdemeanor, and that too depending wholly upon the judgment which the jury may form of the intention of the writer, The Courts, for a long time, indeed, assumed to themselves the province of deciding upon this intention, as a matter of law, conclusively inferring it from the act of publication: “ I say the Courts assumed it, though it was not the doctrine of lord Mansfield, but handed down to him from the precedents of judges before his time: but even in that case, though the publication was the crime, not, as in this case the intention, and though the quality of the thing charged, when not rebutted by evidence for the detendant, had so long been considered to be a legal inference, yet the legislature, to support the province of the jury, and in tenderness for liberty, has lately altered the law upon this important subject. If, therefore, we were not assembled, as we are, to consider of the existence of high treason against the king’s life, but only of a misdemeanor for seditiously disturbing his title and establishment, by the proceedings for a reform in parliament, I should think the Crown, upon the very principle which, under the libel law, must now govern such a trial, quite as distant from its mark ; because, in my opinion, there is no way by which his majesty’s title can more firmly be secured, or by which (above all, in our times) its permanency can be better established, than by promoting a more full and equal representation of the people, by peaceSec the case of the Dean of St. Asaph, able means; and by what other means has itbeen sought, in this instance, to be promoted ? Gentlemen, when the members of this convention were seized, did they attempt resistance 
ERSKINE 8770 | and think that it is dangerous to the publi order; but putting aside the insult upon the Judges now in authority, the reprobation of Jefiries is no libel, but an awful and useful tie Jelion denied the’ privdege of Bogie tice Jeffries deni privilege o! i law to an innocent man. Te rehwed ie to or Thomas Armstrong, who in vain pleaded, in bar of his outlawry, that he was out of the realm when he was exact ‘an objection so clear, that it was lately taken for to supplicate for her father the ciects 
ERSKINE 8771 Armstrong, said Jeffries, “ you may amuse yourselfmuch as you please with the ides of your innocence, but you are to be hanged next Friday ;’—and, upon the natural exclamation of a daughter at this horrible outrage against her parent, he said, “ Take that xprayers that, God Almighty’: jolgmend a prayer, that ‘y's ene light upon him. gentlemen, they did light upon him; and when, after husdeath, which speedily followed this transsction, the matter was brought before the House of Commons, under that glorious Revolution which is asserted throughout the proceedings before you, the judgment against Sir Thomas Armstrong was dec! to be a murder under colour of justice? Sir Robert Sawyer, the Attorney General, was expelled the House of Commons for his misdemeanour in refusing the writ of crror,—and the executors-of Jefferies were commanded to make compensation to the widow and the daughter of the deceased. These are great monuments of justice; and, although I by .no means approve of harsh expressions against authority, which tend to weaken the holdings of society, yet let us. not go beyond the mark in our Testraints nor suppose that men are dangerously disaffected to the government, because they feel a sort of pride and exultation in events, which constitute the dignity and glory of their country. 
ERSKINE 8772 Gentlemen, this resentment against the proceedings of the Courts in Scotland, was not donfined to those who were the objects of them ; it was not confined even to the friends of a Reform in Parliament—abenevolent public, in both parts of the island, joined them in the complaint; and a gentleman of great moderation, and a most inveterate enemy to parliamentary reform, as thinking it is not an improvement of the government, but nevertheless a lover of his country and its insulted justice, made the convictions of the delegates the subject of a public inquiry : I speak of my friend Mr. William Adam, who brought these judgments of the Scotch Judges before the House of Commons—arraigned them as contrary to law, and proposed to reverse them by the authority of Parliament. Let it not then be matter of wonder, that these poor men, who were the immediate victims of this injustice, and who saw their brethren expelled from their cuuntry by an unprecedented and questionable judgment, should feel like men on the subject, and express themselves as they felt. 
ERSKINE 8773 Gentlemen, amidst the various distresses and embarrassments which attend my present situation, it is a great consolation that I have marked from the beginning, your vigilant attention and your capacity to understand ; it is, therefore, with the utmost confidence that I ask you a few plain questions, arising out of the whole of these Scotch proceedings. In the first place, then, do you believe it to be possible, that, if these men had really projected the Convention as a traitorous usurpation of the authorities of Parliament, they would have invited the Friends of the People, im Frith-street, to assist them, when they knew that this Society was determined not to seek the reform of the constitution, but by means that were constitutional, and from whom they could neither hope for support nor concealment of evil purposes?I ask you next, if their objects had been traitorous, would they have given them, without disguise or colour, to the public and to the government, in every common newspaper? and yet it is so far from being a charge against them, that they concealed their objects by hypocrisy or guarded conduct, that I have been driven to admit the justice of the complaint against them, for unnecessary inflammation and exaggeration. I ask you rather, whether if the proceedings, thus published and exaggerated, had eppeared to Government, who knew every ing belonging to them, in the light they represent them to you today, they could possibly have slept over them with such complete indifference and silence? For itis note rious, that after this Convention had been held at Edinburgh; after, in short, every thing had been said, written, and transacted, on which I am now commenting, and after Mr. Paine’s book had been for above a year in universal circulation,—ay, up to the very day when Mr. Grey gave notice, in the House of Commons, of the intention of the Friends of the People for a reform in Parliament, there was not even a single indictment on the file. for a misdemeanor ; but, from that moment, when it was seen that the cause was not beat down or abandoned, the lamation made its appearance, and all the proceedings that followed had their birth. I ask you, lastly, Gentlemen, whether it be in human nature, that a few unprotected men, conscious in their own minds, that they had been engaged and detected ina detestable rebellion to cut off the king, to destroy the administration of justice, and to subvert the whole fabric of the government, should turn round upon their country, whose ruin they had projected, and whuse most obvious justice attached on them, complaining, forsooth, that their delegates, taken by magistrates, in the very act of high treason, had been harshly and illegally interrupted in a meritorious proceeding? The history of mankind never furnished an instance, nor ever will, of such extravagant, preposterous, and unnatural conduct! No, no, gentlemen ; all their hot blood was owing to their firm persuasion, dictated by conscious innocence, that the conduct of their delegates had been legal, and might be vindicated against the magistrates who obstructed them: in that they might be mistaken; I am not arguing that point at present: if they are hereafter indicted for a misdemeanor, and I am Counsel in that cause, I will then tell you what I think of it: sufficient for the day is thegood or evil of it, it is sufficient, for the present one, that the legality or illegality of the business has no relation to the crime that is imputed to the Prisoner. 
ERSKINE 8774 The next matter that is alleged against the authors of the Scotch Convention, and the societies which supported it, is, their having sent addresses of friendship to the conventiow of France. These addresses are considered to be a decisive proof of republican combination, verging closely ih themselves upon an syvert act of treason. Gentlemen, if the dates of these addresses are attended to, which come no lower down than November 1792, we have only to lament, that they are but the acts of private subjects, and that they were not sanctioned by the state itself—The French nation, about that period, under their new constitution, or under their new anarchy, call it which you will, were nevertheless most anxiously desirous of maintaining peace with this country.—But the king was advised to withdraw his ambassador from France, upon the approaching catastrophe of its most unfortunate prince; an event which, however to be deplored, was no justifiable cause of offence to Great Britain.—France desired nothing but the regeneration of her own government; and if she mistook the road to her prosperity, what was that to us
ERSKINE 8776 Gentlemen, the same celebrated person, of whom I have had occasion to speak so frequently, is the best and brightest illustration of this truth. Mr. Burke, indeed, went a grat a farther than requires to be pressed into the present argument; for he maintained the cause of justice and of truth, a all the perverted authority and rash violence of his country, and expressed the feelings of a christian and a patriot in the very heat of the American war; boldly holding forth our victories as defeats ; and our successes as Calamities and disgraces. “ It is not instantly, said Mr. Burke, “ that I can be brought to rejoice, when I hear of the slaughter and eaptivity of long lists of those names which have been familiar to my ears from my infancy, and to rejoice that they have fallen under the sword of strangers, whose barbarous appellations I scarcely know how to 7 prone. The lory acquired at the Waite Plains by colonel} ille, has no charms for me; and I fairly acknowledge, that I have not yet learned to delight in finding Fort Kniphausen in the heart of the British dominions. If this had been said or written by Mr. Yorke at Sheffield, or by any other member of these societies, heated with wine at the Globe-tavern, it would have been trumpeted forth as decisive evidence of a rebellious spirit, rejoicing in the downfall of his saints yet the great author from whose writings I have borrowed, approved himself to be the friend of this nation at that calamitous crisis, and it pleased God to open the understand of our rulers, his wisdom might have averted the storms that are now thickening around us, We must not, therefore, be too severe in our strictures upon the opinions and feelings of men as they regard such mighty public ques tions
ERSKINE 8778 These are melancholy considerations, but they may reasonably, and at all events, be lawfully entertained? We owe obedience to government in our actions, but surely our opinions are free. 
ERSKINE 8779 Gentlemen, pursuing the order of time, we are arrived, at length, at the proposition to hold another convention, which, with the supposed support of it by force, are the only overt acts of high treason charged upon this record
ERSKINE 8781 The transaction respecting this second convention, which constitutes the principal, or more properly the only overt act in the indictment, lies in the narrowest compass, and is clouded with no ambiguity
ERSKINE 8783 You will recollect that the first motion towards the holding of a second convention, eriginated in a letter to the prisoner from a country correspondent, in which the legality of the former was vindicated, and its dispersion lamented : this letter was answered on the 27th of March 1794, and was read to you in the crown’s evidence in these words: “ March 27, 1794. Citizen, I am directed by the London Corresponding Society to transmit the following Resolutions to the Society for Constitutional Information, and to request the sentiments of that society respecting the important measures which the present juncture of affairs seems to require. 
ERSKINE 8784 “ The London Corresponding Society conceives that the moment is arrived, when a full and explicit declaration is necessary from all the friends of freedom—whether the late illegal and unheard-of prosecutions and sentences shall determine us to abandon our cause, or shall excite us to pursue a radical reform, with an ardour proportioned to the magnitude ef the object, and with a zeal as distinguished on our parts as the treachery of others in the same ious cause is notorious. The Society for Constitutional Information is therefore required to determine whether or no they will be ready, when called upon, to act in conjunction with this and other societies to obtain a fair representation of the PEOPLE— whether they concur with us in seeing the necessity of a speedy convention, for the purpose of obtaining, in a constitutional apd legal method, a redress of those grieoances: under which we at present labour, and which can only be effectually removed by a full and fair representation of, the people of Great Britain. The London Corresponding Society cannot but remind their friends that the present crisis demands all the prudence, unanimity, and vigour, that may or can be exerted by MEN and Britons; nor do they duubt but that manly firmness and consistency will finally, and they believe shortly, terminate in the full accomplishment of all their wishes
ERSKINE 8786 They then resolve that there is no securit for the continuance of any right but in equality of daws ; not in equality of property, the ridiculous bugbear by which you are to be frightened into injustice; on the contrary throughout aver part of the proceedings, an most emphatically in Mr. Yorke’s speech, so much relied on, the bencficial subordinations of society, the seourtly of property, and the Prosperity of the landed and commercial interests, are held forth as the very objects to be attained by the reform in the representation which they sought for. 
ERSKINE 8787 In examining this first moving towards a second convention, the first thing to be considered is, what reason there is, from the letter I have just read to you, or from any thing that appears to have led to it, to suppose that a different sort of convention was projected from that which had been before assembled and dispersed
ERSKINE 8789 I will now lay before you all the remaining operations of this formidable conspiracy up to the prisoner’s imprisonment in the Tower. Mr. Hardy having received the letter just adverted to, regarding a second convention, the Corresponding Society wrote the letter of the 27th of March, and which was found in his hand-writing, and is published in the first Report, page 11. This, letter, enclosing the 
ERSKINE 8790 Resolutions they ject, was consi Society on the next day, the 28th of March, the ordinary day for their meeting, when they sent an answer to the Corresponding Society, informing them that they had received their communication, that they heartily concurred with them in the objects they had in view, and invited them to send a delegation of their members to confer with them on the subject. Now, what were the objects they concurred in, and what was to be the subject of conterence between the societies by their delegates? Look at the letter, which distinctly expresses its objects, and the means by which they sought to effect them: had these poor men (too numerous to meet all together, and therefore renewing the cause of Parliamentary Reform by delegation trom the societies) any reason to suppose, that they were involving themselves in the pains of treason, and that they were compassing the King’s death, when they were redeeming (as they thought) his authority from probable downfall and ruin? Had treason been imputed to the delegates before 
ERSKINE 8792 Tn consequence of this discovery, whoever might have the merit of it, and whatever the discoverer might have felt upon it, persons were sent by Government (and properly sent) into all corners of the kingdom to investigate the extent of the mischief; the fruit of this inquiry has been laid before you, and I pledge myself to sum up the evidence which you have had upon the subject, not by parts, or. by general observations, but in the same manner as the Court itself must sum it up tu you, when it lays the whole body of the proof with fidelity before you.—Notwithstandin: all the declamations upon French anarchy, think I may safely assert, that it has ieee distinctly proved, by the evidence, that the Sheffield people were for universal representation in a British House of Commons. This appears to have been the general sentiment, with the exception of one witness, whosoe testimony makes the truth and bona fides of the sentiments far more striking ; the witness Tallude to (George Widdison), whose evidence 1 shall state in its place, seems to bea plain, blunt, honest man, and by-the-by, which must never be forgotten of any of them, the Crown’s witness —I am not interested in the veracity of any of them, for (as I have frequently adverted to) the Crown must take them for better for worse; it must support each witness, and the whole body of its evidence throughout.—If you do not believe the whole of what is proved by a witness, what confidence can you have in part of it, or what Part can you select to confide in 
ERSKINE 8794 but that all the other Sheffield people were for the Duke’s plan; a fact soniye by the cross-examination of every one of the witnesses
ERSKINE 8796 You recollect that, at a meeting held upon the Castle-hill, there were two parties in the country, and itis material to attend to what, these two parties were
ERSKINE 8798 “Fe itow-cit1zEN; —The barefaced aristocracy of the present administration has made it necessary that we should be prepared to act on the defensive, against any attack they may command their newly armed minions to make uponus. A plan has been hit upon, and, if encouraged sufficiently, will, no doubt, have the effect of furnishing a gaan of pikes to the patriots, great enough to make them formidable. The blades are made of steel, temred and polished after an approved form. hey may be fixed into any shafts ae Sir ones are recommended) of the girt of the accompanying hoops at the top end, and about an inch more at the bottom. 
ERSKINE 8799 he blades and hoops (more than which cannot properly be sent to any great distance) will be charged one shilling. Money to be sent with the orders. As the institution is in its infancy, immediate encouragement is necessary. 
ERSKINE 8800 “ Orders may be sent to the Secretary of the Sheffield Constitutional Society. “ Ricgarp Davison. Sheffield, April 24th, 1794. 
ERSKINE 8801 Gentlemen, you must recollect (for if it should escape you, it might make a great dif. ference) that Davison directs the answer to this letter to be sent to Robert Moody at Sheffield, to prevent post-office suspicion ; and that he also encloses in it a similar one, which Mr. Hardy was to forward to Norwich, in order that the society at that place might provide pikes for themselves, in the same manner that Davison was recommending, through Hardy, to the ple of London. Now what followed upon the prisoner’s receiving this letter
ERSKINE 8803 —And is it evidence (except to acquit me of suspicion) when it appears that nothing is done upon it? Mr. Hardy never before corresponded with Davison, he never desired him to write to him.—How indeed could he desire him when his very existence was unknown to him
ERSKINE 8805 ili: was the firstwitness: he swore that the Sheffield societies were fre quently insulted, and threatened to be diy persed ; so that the people in peneral oa it necessary to defend themselves against ile gal attacks : that the justices having offi: ously intruded themselves into their able and legal meetings, they thought they had a right to: be armed; but they did not claim this right under the law of nature, ot by theories of government, but as Enciiss svssects, under the government of Encraxp; for they say in their paper, which has been read by the crown that would condemn them, that they were entitled by the Brix or Ricats to be’ armed. gentlemen, they state their title truly.. The preamble of that statute enamerates the offences of king James 2d; amongst the chief of which was, his causing his subjects to be disarmed, and then our aDcestors claim this violated right as their inde feasible inheritance.—Let us therefore be ca tious ast we rush to the one men are plotting treason against the king, cause they are asserting a right, the en of which has been adjudged against a kingto be treason against the people ; and let ustot suppose that English subjects are a bandit, for preparing to defend their legal liberties with pikes, because pikes may have been accideotally employed in another country to destroy both liberty and law.—Camage says he was spoken to by this Davison about three of pikes—What then
ERSKINE 8807 The next evidence, upon the sybject of arms, is what is proved by Widdison, to which beg your particular attention, because, if there be any reliance upon his testimony, it puts an endto every criminal imputation upon Davison, through whom, in the strange manneralready observed upon, Hardy could alone be criminated. 
ERSKINE 8808 This man, Widdison, who was both a turner and hair-dresser, and who dressed Davison's hair, and was his most intimate acquaintance, gives you an account of their most confidential conversations upon the subject of the pikes, when it is impossible that they could imposing upon one another; and he decares, upon his solemn oath, that Davison, without even the knowledge or authority of the Sheffield Society, thinking that the same insults might be offered to the London Societics, wrote the letter to Hardy, of his own head, as the witness expressed it, and that he, Widdison, made the pike-shafts, to the number of a dozen and a halt
ERSKINE 8810 This was the witness who was shown the duke’s letter, and spoke to it as being circulated, and as the very creed of the societies. —This evidence shows, beyond all doubt, the genuine sentiments of these people, because It consists of their most confidential communications with one another ; and the only answer, therefore, that can possibly be given to it is, that the witnesses, who deliver it, are. imposing upon the Court —But this (as I have wearied you with reiterating) the crown cannot smyself for, in that case, their whole proof falls to the ground together, since it is only from the same witnesses that the very existence of these pikes and their handles comes before us; and, if you suspect their evidence in part, for the reasons already given, it must be in toto rejected
ERSKINE 8812 John Hill was next called: he is a cutler,. and was employed by Davison to make the’ blades for the pikes; he saw the letter which was sent to Hardy, and knew that it was sent lest there should be the same call for defence in London against illegal attacks upon the societies ; for that at Sheffield they were daily insulted, and that the opposite party came to his own house, fired muskets under the door, and threatened to pull it down; he swears that they were, to a man, faithful to the king, and that the reform proposed was in the Commons House of Parliament. 
ERSKINE 8813 John Edwards was called, farther to connect the prisoner with this combination of force: but so far from establishing it, he swore, upon his cross-examination, that his only reason for going to Hardy’s was, that he wanted a ike for his own defence, without connexion with Davison, or with Sheffield, and without concert or correspondence with any body. He had heard, he said, of the violences at Sheffield, and of the pikes that had been made there for defence ; that Hardy, on his application, showed him the letter which, as has appeared, he never showed to any other person
ERSKINE 8815 Before I advertto what has been sworn by this description of persons, I will give you a wholesome caution concerning them, and, having no eloquence of my own to enforce it, I will give it to you in the language of the same gentleman whose works are always seasonable, when moral or political lessons are to be rendered delightful. Look then at the picture of society, as Mr. Burke has drawn it, under the dominion of spies and informers: I say under their dominson, for a resort to ies may, on occasions, be justifiable, and their evidence, when confirmed, may deserve implicit credit: but I say under the dominion of spies and informers, because the case of the crown must stand alone upon their evidence, gud wpon their evidence, not only unconfirmed, but in direct contradiction to every witness, not an informer or a spy, and in a case too where the truth, whatever it zs, lies within the knowledge of forty or fifty thousand people. Mr. Burke says—I believe I can remember it without reference to the book. 
ERSKINE 8816 “ A mercenary informer knows no distincton. Under such a system, the obnoxious rere are slaves, not only to the goverament, t they live at the mercy of every individual ; they are at once the slaves of the whole community, and of every part of it; and the worst and most unmerciful men are those on whose goodness they most depend. 
ERSKINE 8817 “In this situation men not only shrink from the frowns of a stern magistrate, but are obliged to fly from their very species. The seeds of destruction are sown in civil intercourse and in social habitudes
ERSKINE 8819 Gentlemen, let me bring to your recollection the deportment of the first of this tribe, 
ERSKINE 8820 Mr. Alexander,—who could not in halfan hour even tell where he had lived, or why be had left his master—Does any man i that he had forgotten these most recent transactions of his life? Certainly not—but bis history would have undone his credit, aod must therefore be concealed.— He had lived with a linen draper, whose address we could scarcely get from him, and they had parted because they had words: What were the words? We were not to be told that—He then went to a Mr. Kellerby’s, who agreed with him at twenty-five guineas a year.—Why did he not stay there
ERSKINE 8822 Driven from the accusation wpon the subject of pikes, and even from the very colour of accusation, and knowing that nothing was to be done without the proof of arms, we have got this miserable, solitary knife, held up to us as the engine which was to destroy the constitution of this country; and Mr. Groves, an Old Bailey solicitor, employed 33 a spy upon the occasion, has been selected ive probability to this monstrous absurdity, yy his respectuble evidence
ERSKINE 8824 they were enrolled under public articles, and though Franklow himself, as appears from the evidence, attended publicly at the Globe tavern in his uniform, whilst the cartouch boxes and the other accoutre uents of and accordingly this notable Mr. Groves wentthese secret cunspiraters lay publicly upon 
ERSKINE 8825 (as he told us) to Green’s, and asked to purebase a knife ; when Greenin answer to him said, “ speak low, for my wife is a damn’d aristocrat
ERSKINE 8827 that he sold only fourteen in all, and that the: 
ERSKINE 8828 were made up in little packets, one of whic Mr. Hardy had, who was to choose one for himself, but four more were found in bis possession, because he was arrested before Green had an opportunity of sending for them. Gentlemen, I think the pikes and knives ase now completely disposed of; butsomething was said also about guns; let us, therefore, see what that amounts to.—It appears that Mr. Hardy was applied to by Samuel Williams, a gun-engraver, who was not even a member of any society, and who asked him if he knew any body who wanted a gun— Hardy said he did not; and undoubtedly upon the crown’s own showing, it must be taken for granted that if at that time he had been sega! with any planof arming, he would ave given a different answer, and would have jumped at the offer : about a fortnight ards, however (Hardy in the interval having become acquainted with Franklow), Wiliams called to buy a pair of shoes, and then Hardy, recollecting his former application referred him to Franklow, who had in the most public manuer raised the forty men, who were called the Loyal Lambeth Association : so that, in order to give this transaction any bearing upon the charge, it became necessary to consicer Franklow’s associationas an armed comepiracy against the government; though the forty people who composed it were colby public advertisement; though his shop-board, exposed to the open view of all his customers and neighbours. This story, therefore, is not less contemptible than that which you ‘must have all heard concerning Mr. Walker, whom 1 went to detend at Lancaster, where that respectable gentleman was brought to trial upon such a trumped-up charge, supported by the solitary evidence of one Dunn, a most infamous witness: but what was the end of that prosecution 
ERSKINE 8830 its own spy in Scottand upon that evidence, and it may be sufficient evidence for tht purpose: I will not argue the case of a dead man, and, above all, of such a man; bet! will say, that too much money was spent upen this performance, as I think it cost govemment about fifty thousand pounds
ERSKINE 8832 ! been found in his possession, nor a trace any connexion between them and any ronal ber of any English society; the trut! lieve is, that pethitog was intended by Watt but to entrap others to obtain a rew 
ERSKINE 8833 ; himself, and he has been amply and just 
ERSKINE 8834  warded. gentlemen, I desire to be stood to be making no attacks upon gover ment, I have wished, throughout the whole cause, that good intentions may be imputed to it, but I really confess, that it requires some ingenuity for government to account for the original existence of all this history, and its subsequent application to They went down to Scotland, after the arrest of the prisoners, in order, I suppose, that we might be taught the law of high treason by the lord justice Clerk of Edinburgh, and that there should be a sort of rehearsal to teach the pore of England to administer English ws; for, after all this expense and prepavation, no man was put upon his trial, nor even arraigned under the special commission in Scotland, but these two men; one for the present trial. 
ERSKINE 8835 reading this paper, and the other for not dissenting from it when it was read; and, with regard to this last unfortunate person, the crown thought it indecent, as-it would indeed have been indecent and scandalous, to execute the law upon him; as a gentleman upon his jury said he would die, rather than convict Downie without a recommendation of mercy, and he was only brought over to join in the werdict, under the idca that he would not be executed, and accordingly he has not suffered execution. If Downie, then, was an object of mercy, or rather of justice, though he was the very reom with Watt, and heard disio tinetly the proposition, ground can they demand soner at the bar, on account of a connexion ig what possible with the very same individual, though he never corresponded with him, nor saw him, nor 
ERSKINE 8836 Acard of him,—to whose very being he was an utter stranger ? Gentlemen, it is impossible for me to know what impression this observation makes upon you, or upon the Court; but I 
ERSKINE 8837 acclare Iam deeply impressed with the application of it—How is a man to defend himself against such implications of guilt? — Which of us all would be safe, standing at the bar of God or man, if he were even to answer for all his own expressions, without taking upon him the crimes or rashnesses of others? This poor man has, indeed, none of his own to answer for: yet how can he stand safely in judgment before you, if, in a season ofalarm and agitation, with the whole pressure of government upon him, your minds are to be distracted with criminatiag materials brought from so many quarters, and of an extent which mocks all power of discrimination 
GIBBS 8839  You were a member, I belicve, of the London Corresponding Society 
GIBBS 8841 Were you of the same division with the prisoner, Mr. Hardy 
GIBBS 8843 Did you attend the divisions much 
GIBBS 8845 Is it two years that you have ceased to belong to it
GIBBS 8847 You saw Mr. Hardy frequently
GIBBS 8849 Were youacquainted with him 
GIBBS 8851 What was his character—a man of a peaceable disposition, or at all inclined to riot or tumult
GIBBS 8853 Was he a friend to order 
GIBBS 8855 Then he was a great friend to peace and order 
GIBBS 8857 What were the objects of your society 
GIBBS 8859 In what House of parliament did you wish that reform to take place 
GIBBS 8862 I understand so. 
GIBBS 8864 We think that every witness that we shall call, will submit to'any crose-examination the crown may choose. 
GIBBS 8866 You will understand, that it will not be an excuse to you, with respect to any question that the attorney general may ask, that an answer will accuse yourself
GIBBS 8869 Youhave said, that the only object of your society was a reform in the House of Commons 
GIBBS 8871 Was it any part of your views to make any alteration in the House of Lords 
GIBBS 8873 Had you ever any design to make any attack, or to trench at all upon the authority of the crown 
GIBBS 8875 You had not 
GIBBS 8879 I understand, and I take the rule from the Court, that a counsel must not putea answer into the mouth of a witness, ie ay laa him to the subject. a asked if they any views loa changein House of Lords. 
GIBBS 8881 I will putit so. You said you did wish that there should be a reform in the House of Commons; what were the views of the society with respect to the House of Lords
GIBBS 8883 What were the views of the society with respect to the authority of the Crown 
GIBBS 8885 You told me you were intimately acquainted with Mr. Hardy, did he converse with you often upon political subjects 
GIBBS 8887 If he had had any views different from a do you think you should have known 
GIBBS 8889 Had you any reason, from any conversation that you ever had with him, to think that his views were different from yours; that be had any views either upon the House of Lords er the King 
ERSKINE 8892 Are you afraid of the question. 
ERSKINE 8896 I don't understand you. 
ERSKINE 8898 I still less understand you now, and am surprised, I own. 
GIBBS 8902 I believe I had better go on with the examination. You tell me you never collected, from Mr. Hardy, that he had any different views from those that you had 
GIBBS 8904 Did Mr. Hardy ever produce, at the division meeting of your society, any letter, that he received from Sheffield, about pikes
GIBBS 8906 Did he ever communicate it to you
GIBBS 8913 I asked, in the examination in chief, whether the letter, relating to pikes, had been read; I putin those terms; I do aver, upon my veracity, that did; and I will not have that contradicted. 
GIBBS 8917 Because there was a direct contradiction to the fact. 
VAUGHAN 8919 I presume, my lord, as I have been personally alluded to, may be permitted to speak. I assure the attorney general, and the whole court, upon my honour, that [had none of the intentions, nor would have been guilty of the fact which he imputes to me; and the only circumstance which induced me to make one single observation is this—that Mr. Erskine and Mr. Gibbs did me the honour to desire that I would sit next them, because some months ago I was consulted upon the subject of this trial ; that being the case, many circumstances might occur to my recollection with which they might not be acquainted. 
VAUGHAN 8921 I certainly would not, my lord. If the Attorney general desires, I will remove to any other part of the court. 
ERSKINE 9079 Is your lordship’s time to be’ consumed about this gentleman’s opinion upon asong? ; 
ERSKINE 9084 But it is not proved that it was either sung or said there. 
GIBBS 9089  Were you a member of the London Corresponding Society
GIBBS 9091 Of that division of which Mr. Hardy was a member
GIBBS 9093 What was the object of the society 
GIBBS 9095 In what part of parliament 
GIBBS 9097 ue you sny other object but that
GIBBS 9099 What did you mean with-respect to the King, or the House of Lords 
GIBBS 9101 And im have said, by parliament you Meant the House of Commons 
GIBBS 9103 Did you: entertain any other idea yourself but that ofa reform in the House of Commons 
GIBBS 9105 Had you any idea of opposing the government by force 
GIBBS 9107 Had you any intention of doing that? — 
GIBBS 9108 “None. 
GIBBS 9109 Have you seen the prisoner at the bar, Mr. Hardy, there often 
GIBBS 9111 ‘ Did you ever find, from conversation with hin, that be had any such intention
GIBBS 9113 What was his character—that of a peaceable, orderly man, or the contrary
GIBBS 9115 Were you one of the London Correspond
GIBBS 9116 -ing Society, when a convention, as it is called, was talked of
GIBBS 9118 What was your object in calling that con
GIBBS 9119 ‘vention ; what was it to de
GIBBS 9121 Was it any part of your intention that this convention should proceed by force
GIBBS 9123 Francis Dowling cross-examined by Mr. Attorney General. How long have you been a member of this society 
GIBBS 9125 Did Mr. Hardy ever produce at the division, when you were there, a letter from Sheffield about pikes
GIBBS 9283  Were you a member of the London Corresponding Sucicty 
GIBBS 9285 Mow long were you a member of it
GIBBS 9287 Do you know Mr. Hardy 
GIBBS 9289 What were the objccts of the society
GIBBS 9291 A reform in what part of parliament 
GIBBS 9293 What were your intentions as to any other part of parliament, as to the King, or the Lords
GIBBS 9295 Then your intention was only to work a reformation in the House of Commons 
GIBBS 9297 Had you any reason to think that any other members of the society intended any thing else
GIBBS 9299 Was it the intention of any member of the society to bring this about by force
GIBBS 9301 Would you have continued in the society, if you had found they had any such intentions 
GIBBS 9303 Were yuu at the socicty when the resolutions concerning a convention passed 
GIBBS 9305 “Was there any reason for your absenting yoursell
GIBBS 9307 Was it merely from your avocations leading you another way
GIBBS 9309 How long have you known Mr. Hardy
GIBBS 9311 Is he a good inember of society trom what you have heard
GIBBS 9435  You had heard that there was a man in custody who was in distress
GIBBS 9437 Did you, at that time, know the man’s name 
GIBBS 9439 Was he represented to you as an object in distress 
GIBBS 9441 And for that man so imprisoned, and so in distress, did you subscribe any money 
GIBBS 9443 What was your reason for saying, just now, that you perhaps subscribed a guinea, or two guineas, or five guineas
GIBBS 9454 I will now call-a gentleman at the bar, who says he knows this witness perfectly well, and that he is a man of goud cha racter. 
GIBBS 9456  Were you a member of either of those secieties Which society do you mean ? 
GIBBS 9457 Either the society for Constitutional Information, or the London Corresponding Society
GIBBS 9459 Do you know Mr. Hardy, the prisoner 
GIBBS 9461 What division were you of—were you of the same division with Mr. Hardy 
GIBBS 9463 What was the object of your society 
GIBBS 9465 In which House of parliament
GIBBS 9467 What were your intentions towards the king, or towards the House of Lords 
GIBBS 9469 Was it the intention of any of the members of the society, that you know, to bri about this parliamentary reform by force o arms
GIBBS 9471 Youknow nothing of any such intention
GIBBS 9473 Was it the intention of any of the members of the society, whom you know, to make any, stink upon the goverstment of the countsy
GIBBS 9475 It was not
GIBBS 9477 Was that his general character 
GIBBS 9479 Ts that the character he has barne ever since you have known him
GIBBS 9481 While you were in the society, did Mr. Hardy ever produce, at the division, any letter ftom Sheffield, about pikes 
GIBBS 9483 Did you ever know of his communicating any such letter, to any of the members of the Corresponding Society
GIBBS 9567  What business are you 
GIBBS 9569 Are you a member of either the Constitutivnal or the London Lonrespouiling Societies, or have you been 
GIBBS 9571 Of which
GIBBS 9573 How long have you been a member of it
GIBBS 9575 When did you cease to be a member
GIBBS 9577 What was the object of the socicty
GIBBS 9579 In what part of parliament—in the representation of the peuple 
GIBBS 9581 Of what House of parliament
GIBBS 9583 What was your intent as to the King, or the House of Lords 
GIBBS 9585 Did pe ever collect, from any of the members of the society, that they had any other intent than that of a reform in the House of Commons
GIBBS 9587 Did you ever collect, from any of them, that it was their intent to produce a reform by violence 
GIBBS 9589 But I want to know, whether any of the members, whom you were acquainted with, had any intention to do it by violence 
GIBBS 9591 Had they apy intention of attacking the government of the country
GIBBS 9593 Do you know Mr. Hardy, the prisoner at the bar
GIBBS 9595 What is his character
GIBBS 9597 Is that his general character 
GIBBS 9603  What are you
GIBBS 9605 Where do you live
GIBBS 9607 Mow long have you been a shoemaker
GIBBS 9609 Do you know the prisoner at the bar?Yes. 
GIBBS 9610 How long have you known him
GIBBS 9612 Was he ever connected with you at all
GIBBS 9614 In what manner 
GIBBS 9616 As journeyman 
GIBBS 9618 How long ago did he cease to be a servant of yours
GIBBS 9620 Have you known him since that time
GIBBS 9622 During the whole of this time, the seve: years he lived with you, and the three yeas since, duriug which you have known hin, what character has he borne 
GIBBS 9624 A good character for peace and’ order
GIBBS 9626 Is he of a peaceable and orderly dispos tion, or the contrary 
GIBBS 9628 Are you a member of the Constitutions! Society, or the London Corresponding Soe ty 
GIBBS 9630 Have you ever been
GIBBS 9632 What are you
GIBBS 9634 Have you known Mr. Hardy, the prisoner
GIBBS 9636 I will not lead you into that sort of count of him; what I want to know of yous. you say you have known him between thre and four years; what character has he boro: during that time
GIBBS 9650 State as near as you can the time 
GIBBS 9652 Do you remember the time he was taken up
GIBBS 9654 She is dead since
GIBBS 9656 You must not say what she told you, you are not sure what the time was when you had this conversation
GIBBS 9658 Are you a member of cither of these socicties
GIBBS 9660 During the time that you have known him, what has been his character, I mean as a peaceable man, or the contrary 
GIBBS 9662 You have collected this from your conversation with him 
GIBBS 9664 Have you seen him often 
GIBBS 9666 You told me you had taken pains to draw from him what his opinions were 
GIBBS 9708  Thelieve you are secretary to the Society of the Friends of the People
GIBBS 9710 Meeting in Frith-street
GIBBS 9712 Have you ever happened to see Mr. Hardy the’ prisoner 
GIBBS 9714 Upon what occasions have you seen him
GIBBS 9716 Upon what occasion did you see him then
GIBBS 9718 Had Pea any conversationswith him relative to the London Corresponding Society 
GIBBS 9720 hat did he tell you the object of that society was
GIBBS 9722 Did he ever converse with you upon the way in which he wished that reform to be brought about? 
GIBBS 9724 I ask this in order to sift the mind of the prisoner; the crime imputed to the prisoner is an act of the mind; this case is an anomalous one—the compassingin his own mind the king’s death ; I am asking as to the conversations he has had upon the subject, in order to find what were his intentions, what the state of his mind was upon that subject. 
GIBBS 9727 What were the means by which you understood from him that the London Corresponding Society wished to bri about this end
GIBBS 9729 Did you see him at any time after this 
GIBBS 9731 Did it appear to you, that he re, dence in you 
GIBBS 9733 Had you any conversation with him concerning this convention ‘that was talked about 
GIBBS 9735 There may be a little irregularity in putting the question, I only want to bring him to the time. 
GIBBS 9736 Lord Chief' Justice Eyre
GIBBS 9738 Had you ever any conversation with him ?Mr. Stuart
GIBBS 9743 Had you ever any conversation with him abont any convention 
GIBBS 9745 During the time you have known him, what character has he borne 
GIBBS 9747 Have you had any opportunity of collecting from him whether it was his object to bring this about by peaceable means, or otherwise 
GIBBS 9794  What objections did the Friends of the People take to that letter which was sent to them 
GIBBS 9796 at the time that letter was sent, it was in the beginning of the society, and at that time I was Never present at the meetings of the society, or the committee, and cannot form any opinion of any other objections than what are slated in the letter. 
GIBBS 9797  Are you a member of cither of these societies 
GIBBS 9799 How lung have you known Mr. Hardy 
GIBBS 9801 Have you known him well during that time 
GIBBS 9803 What character has he borne during that time
GIBBS 9805 From what you know of his character, is he a man at all likely to raise any disturbance, or commit any acts of violence
GIBBS 9808 It is a question I never heard any objection to, 
GIBBS 9811  What are you 
GIBBS 9813 How long have you known Mr. Hardy 
GIBBS 9815 Are youamember of either of these societies 
GIBBS 9817 What character has Mr. Hardy borne duing the cight or nine years you have known him 
GIBBS 9819 Have you known him well during that time 
GIBBS 9821 Has that been his general character 
GIBBS 9823  What are you
GIBBS 9825 low long have you known Mr. Hardy, the prisoner 
GIBBS 9827 Have you known him intimately 
GIBBS 9829 What has been his character during those seven years that you have known him 
GIBBS 9831 Has he been a peaceable, orderly man
GIBBS 9833 Have you known him well during this time 
GIBBS 9835 Is this his general character 
GIBBS 9839  What are you
GIBBS 9841 Ilow long have you known Mr. Hardy
GIBBS 9843 Have you known him well during that time
GIBBS 9845 What character has he borne during those twelve years
GIBBS 9847 Is he of a peaceable disposition 
GIBBS 9849 fe te you a member of either of the societies
GIBBS 9851  You are a minister, I understand
GIBBS 9853 How long have you known Mr. Hardy, the prisoner at the bar 
GIBBS 9855 Have you known him well, during that time 
GIBBS 9857 Has he attended your congregation 
GIBBS 9859 During the time you have known him, what character has he borne 
GIBBS 9861 In all respects
GIBBS 9863 As far as you know him, he has deserved that character
GIBBS 9865 What is his general character 
GIBBS 9869  How long have you known the prisoner at the bar, Mr. Hardy
GIBBS 9871 What are you
GIBBS 9873 During these seventeen years have you known him weil
GIBBS 9875 Duiing that time what character has he borne
GIBBS 9877 Do you speak trom your knowledge of him? —from my own knowledge. 
GIBBS 9878 What Is his general character
GIBBS 9880 Are you a member of either the Constitutional or the Lonlon Corresponding Societies 
GIBBS 9970  What business are you 
GIBBS 9972 Where do you live
GIBBS 9974 How long have you known the prisoner, 
GIBBS 9975 Hardy 
GIBBS 9977 Is that his general character
GIBBS 9979 Are youa member of either of the societie
GIBBS 9985  What are you 
GIBBS 9987 Where do you live
GIBBS 9989 How long have you known Mr. Hardy
GIBBS 9991 Have you known him well since that time! —Yes; I have known him to be an indur trious, an honest, and a christian mau, believe. 
GIBBS 9992 What is his general character 
GIBBS 9994 Has he the character of a peaceable man
GIBBS 9996 Do you speak from your own know! ol him Yes, and his general character. 
GIBBS 10007  What business are you 
GIBBS 10012 How long have you known the prisoner 
GIBBS 10014 Hy arly so. 
GIBBS 10015 as he ever talked with you upon what was “the object of the London Corresponding So:. ciety at all
GIBBS 10018  What business are you
GIBBS 10020 How long have you known the prisoner
GIBBS 10022 Have you known him well 
GIBBS 10024 From the year 1780, to the present time, what character has he borne
GIBBS 10026 Has that been his general character
GIBBS 10028 And from what you have heard of him
ERSKINE 10032 My lord, I would now state a fact, which probably the attorney general will admit
ERSKINE 10035 It is a strong circumstance that it remained unopened and unsent, for such a length of time. 
ERSKINE 10037  Did you find the letter in the possession of the prisoner, when he was taken into custody, which has been given in evidence, in an enclosure 
ERSKINE 10039 Did you see them 
ERSKINE 10041 Was the enclosure of the letter, that was directed to Norwich, open or not
ERSKINE 10043 se that to be the letter. ho was that person
ERSKINE 10045 You recollect the messengers taking notice that there was a letter then unopened 
ERSKINE 10047  What is your trade 
ERSKINE 10049 Where is your place of residence 
ERSKINE 10051 How long have you been an inhabitant of Sheffield 
ERSKINE 10053 Have you carried on trade during that time
ERSKINE 10055 Were you a member of the Sheffield Society 
ERSKINE 10057 When did you become so 
ERSKINE 10059 Up to what time did you continue a member 
ERSKINE 10061 What was your object in being a member of that society 
ERSKINE 10063 That was your own object 
ERSKINE 10065 Task you, upon your solemn oath, and the truth is better than all other things, from all that you observed, and heard, and saw, in the course of your attendance upon that society, had you any reason to believe, or have you now, before God, any reason to believe, that their objects were different from your own
ERSKINE 10067 Did you ever see any thing pass, or did you hear any thing that led you to believe, or that Jeads you now to believe, that there was an intention to attack the government by armed force and violence
ERSKINE 10069 Were you a member of the Sheffield Society at the time it sent its delegates to Scotland
ERSKINE 10071 From what passed in the society, upon that occasion, what was your object in sending your delegate ; what was he to do
ERSKINE 10073 By what means did you intend, or contemplate, that this end was to be accomplished 
ERSKINE 10075 What was the reason, after the petition brought forward by Mr. Grey had been rejected, for having delegates? what did you expect would be the consequence of a petition from dclegates
ERSKINE 10077 What good effect did you expect to arise from sending delegates in order to have a petition from large bodies of people 
ERSKINE 10079 What effect did you expect that sentiment to produce? did you expect it to make an impression upon the parliament so as to induce them to grant the redress applied for 
ERSKINE 10081 You expected that the general sentiment of the people, as far as you could collect it, would make an impression upon the parliament, and produce that effect 
ERSKINE 10083 Task you solemnly, upon your oath, whether it was in your comtemplation, or from what you heard and saw in the course of the debates and proceedings, as far as you are acquainted with them, whether it was the intention of those delegates to contrive means by which parliament should be compelled to grant it
ERSKINE 10085 Would you have remained a member of the society it veu had reason to believe or suspect that that was the object 
ERSKINE 10087 Was any thing said, or did you collect from the gencral objects of your society, that it was their intention to affect the king's majesty, either in his person, or his state and dignity
ERSKINE 10089 Was there any intention that you could collect (I am not asking your ideas or imagination) from what passed in your hearing in the course of the proceedings of the societs, to touch the Lords House of Parliament
ERSKINE 10091 Were yau at the Castle-hill when Mr. Yorke made a speech there 
ERSKINE 10093 I take for granted that every now and thes a hot spirit might show itself? 
ERSKINE 10095 I will not ask any moe questions; I am quite satisfied with what be has said. 
ERSKINE 10194  When you say the motion was negatived for petitioning parliament, do you mean to say it was negatived to petition parliament ultimately by the delegates, when they got the sense of a larger body of the people 
ERSKINE 10196 Whatever Mr. Brown Campbell, or Mr. Campbell Brown might write, or whatever he might think, or whatever he might do, did your socicty give him any authority to act for you at. Edinburgh, except in a legal and constitutional manner 
ERSKINE 10198 Ido not care whether he acted legally or not, but did your society Li? him authority, confining ‘him within the limits of legal and constitutional behaviour 
ERSKINE 10200 Would you have consented to the sending of himto Edinburgh, if youhad oclieved that he would have transgressed the rules of law
ERSKINE 10202 You might be mistaken undoubtedly ; but I wish to know whether you acted with the intention that you have stated to us ?e—I certainly did. 
ERSKINE 10211  What are you 
ERSKINE 10213 An inhabitant of Sheffield 
ERSKINE 10215 A housekeeper there
ERSKINE 10217 What is your father 
ERSKINE 10219 Were you a member of the society 
ERSKINE 10221 From what time to what time 
ERSKINE 10223 Did you attend frequently the meetings of the society 
ERSKINE 10225 Did you attend them what might be called regularly 
ERSKINE 10227 Butin the general you were a good attendant
ERSKINE 10229 How did you expect that that co-operation with the rest of your brethren would produce that consequence 
ERSKINE 10231 Did you expect more effect from petitions which might afterwards be presented, under a delegation from large bodies, than might be procured by the petitions of a small number? Yes, 
ERSKINE 10232 Did you consider that such petitions from delegates of large bodies of people, were more likely to impress parliament with the policy and justice of the measure 
ERSKINE 10234 Was it your intention, as far as you must be acquainted with your own objects, if you were disappointed in the effect which you expected, to use force or violence: 
ERSKINE 10236 Be so good as to hear the question out, Ido not like to be interrupted in the middle ofa question. 
ERSKINE 10241 Then it is not worth intertupting mein this way. If the ge the success of which you contemp k not have been attended with effect, wasit your object to use force
ERSKINE 10243 ted, should 
ERSKINE 10244 Would you have remained in the society, if you had had any reason to believe that thit was the object of others 
ERSKINE 10246 From what passed in the society, when yu were present at their meetings, what did rolleck to be their object oT never ine. stood that the object of the society, as a body, or as individuals, was any thing more thana seform in parliament; dnd they did not, a far as I knew of them, desire, in the least, to gain this object by any other means than by petitioning parliament. 
ERSKINE 10247 Were you present, upon the Castle hill, when a petition to parliament was rej and a petition to the king put in the room of it
ERSKINE 10249 When that petition to the House of Com mons, was negatived for the present, wasit determined, at no future time, to petition par liament, when ‘you had got the sense of 8 larger body of people? 
ERSKINE 10250 ton Chief Justice Eyre.—Do you koow what the terms of the resolution were 
ERSKINE 10252 Ilis lordship, I suppose, does not ask as to the words, but if you the substance of it
ERSKINE 10254 Did it refer to that time, or to all times
ERSKINE 10256 Were you in the society at the time whet it was proposed to send a delegate to land 
ERSKINE 10258 Did the proposition to have a convent in Scotland, and to have delegates sent to ih come to your society from Scotland, of you send to it
ERSKINE 10260 When you sent your delegate, what 73 the object of the society, as far as you edit from what you heard upon the oc sion; I am not asking your ideas and novow in sending Mr. Brown to Edinburgh i—The object of the society, as far as I knew of, a sending Matthew Campbell Brown to Bd burgh, was, in order that proper m q might be considered of, for the purpo gaining a reform. in parliament. we 
ERSKINE 10261 Was Matthew, Campbell Brown, 88 gate from your society, to express the which your society had 
ERSKINE 10263 Was it the object of your society that your, delegate should express your idea 
ERSKINE 10265 Was he directed to pursue the object which the society expressed 
ERSKINE 10267 When the delegates, from the different societies had got together, what were they to do 
ERSKINE 10271 What effect did you consider might be produced by having delegates assembled, peaceably, from very large bodies of people—what effect did you contemplate that would have with parliament 
ERSKINE 10273 Did you think that petitions, coming from delegates, from a great body of people, would have more effect than a petition from a small body 
ERSKINE 10275 Did you contemplate that, by the pursuit of the same peaceable means, parliament might ultimately yield, from a sense of justice, to your wishes
ERSKINE 10277 From any thing that passed in your society, was there any thing in contemplation against the king
ERSKINE 10279 Against his title, or office 
ERSKINE 10281 Was any thing said, when the delegate was sent to Scotland, concerning the House of Lords
ERSKINE 10283 Did the object of your society extend farther than the representation of the people in the House of Commons 
ERSKINE 10285 When did you first hear, what we have heard a good deal of in this court, of any arms, or pikes ? —I do not particularly recollect the time ; it was a few months back. 
ERSKINE 10286 Just a little before Mr. Camage was taken up, was not it
ERSKINE 10288 Do you recollect whether the society, or any part of it, had been insulted, or threatened
ERSKINE 10290 Do you mean, by the opposite party, the Magistrates
ERSKINE 10292 Do you recollect whether that was com-, plained of in the society, and whether any danger was thought of 
ERSKINE 10294 Task you, upon your most solemn oath, whether there was ever any thing passed in the society, for arming it as a body, for an at-" tack upon the government of the country 
ERSKINE 10296 If any such idea had ever occurred to any wicked man, or wicked men, in your society, have reason to believe that you should have known it
ERSKINE 10298 I do not ask you what any wicked man, in. his own private mind, might have intended, but if it had been the object of your society, or any number of them, do you believe yu should have known it
ERSKINE 10370 You may take it to be Ask ness to prove Ashton’s hand-writing. 
ERSKINE 10371 Mr. Bower,—What is Samuel Ashton}—I believe he was orginally a painter. 
ERSKINE 10372 What is he now
ERSKINE 10374 You do not know where he is now
ERSKINE 10376 You may look at the contents of that letter, and tell me, whether you know of that letter being sent to London 
ERSKINE 10377 Now you have read that letter; upon your oath, do you know of that letter being sent to London 
ERSKINE 10379 Do you believe you did; I will try yu first in that way, because I advise you, that we know more of this than you are aware of, and therefore be cautious ; upon your oath, it the first place, do you believe, or not, thet was sent
ERSKINE 10381 Did you at any time after you becamea member, know that that letter had beea written
ERSKINE 10383 There is one thing in which you arc wa: curate; but I do not want to surprise you; 
ERSKINE 10384 ou stated in your examination, that you ha been a member of this society in 1794; this letter is dated the 14th of March 1799, and of course must be written at the time you were a member 
ERSKINE 10386 Then though you had been a member from 1791 to March 1792, you did not know of that letter being written
ERSKINE 10388 Was any report ever made to the society, what the committees had been doing
ERSKINE 10390 About what periods; once a fortnight, a month, three months, or at about what intervals
ERSKINE 10392 What was the time that was oftenest, was it once a week
ERSKINE 10394 Once a fortnight? 
ERSKINE 10404 Begin at the beginning, and read the whole letter
ERSKINE 10406 Jhiry will be so guod as to take down the date of this letter; it is the 14th of March, 1792, 
ERSKINE 10409 I1 have no wish to consume the time of the Court ; 1 only wish the jury to take down that date, the 14th of March, 
ERSKINE 10410 1792, because I havea witness to call in a few minutes. 
ERSKINE 10424 It is necessary the jury should know, as you go on, that this is not new matter; thatit is matter which has been proved before. 
ERSKINE 10431 I am going to prove his hand-writing, as I stated before. 
ERSKINE 10432 “ gentlemen, This Society, feeling as they do, the grievous effects of the present corrupt state defects, and abuse of our country ; the great and heavy oppressions which the common mass of the people labour under, as the natural consequence of that corruption ; and at the same time being sensible, toa degree of certainty, that the public minds, and general sentiments of the people, are determined to obtain, A RADICAL REFORM OF THE COUNTRY, as soon as prudence and discretion will permit, believes it their duty to make use of every prudent means, as far as their abilities can be extended, to obtain so salutary and desirable an object as a thorough reformation of our country. For these reasons, with great deference and submission to the members of the Society for Constitutional Information in London, we beg leave to request that they will be pleased to admit the persons of the following names annexed hereto as members of their society (they being our friends, and members of our society), in order that a close connexion may be formed, and a regular communication maintained, between the two bodies ; that, being thus strengthened this society may be better enabled to govern itself with more propriety, and to render assistance to their fellow-citizens in this neighbourhood, and in parts more remote ; that they, in their turn, may extend useful knowledge still farther, from town to village, and from village to town, until the whole nation be sufficiently enlightened, and united in the same cause, which cannot fail of being the case wherever the most excellent works of Mr. Thomas Paine find residence. I am, gentlemen, your most respectful and sincere triend
ERSKINE 10434 “ SAMUEL ASHTON, Secretary for this society. 
ERSKINE 10478 Do you temember that paper ; do you know any thing of it 
ERSKINE 10481 That is a very good ressoa why he need not read it aloud again. 
ERSKINE 10517 They are asking the number of members, at a distinct period of time, in a society the numbers af which were fluctuating. 
ERSKINE 10538  You said, when you had obtained an equal representation in the House of Commons, if there was any corruption in the House of Lords, a reformation there would follow of course—do you mean that that would follow, in consequence of an act of parliament made by the King, the Lords, and the House of Commons, restored to its purity, as you wished it
ERSKINE 10541 Though there was no fixed time for your committee’s reporting what pessed before them, whether reports were not made from time to time, and all the procecdings published in the papers
ERSKINE 10543 Was there any concealment of what you did 
ERSKINE 10545 Were not the letters, which you have heard read in court here, from time to time, printed in the newspapers at the time
ERSKINE 10547 But did you not advertise frequently in the newspapers, the procecdings and letters that you had 
ERSKINE 10551 1I call this gentleman, who has been examined before, in consequence of the evidence which your lordship has now been attending to; this gentleman is secretary to the Friends of the People, in Frithstreet, London, whose proccedings are before the Court. Have you any letter from the Sheffield Society, signed Samuel Ashton 
ERSKINE 10553 lad the Society of the Friends of the People, at that time, published their Declaration; icallit our Declaration, being myself a member of that society 
ERSKINE 10556 The 14th of May, 1792. At what time did the Society of the Friends of the People first institute themselves, and publish their Declaration; have you one about you 
ERSKINE 10558 Does this letter refer to this address 
ERSKINE 10560 We will read the letter first, and then the address. 
ERSKINE 10562 The title of it is—“ A Declaration, agreed to on the 11th of April, 1792, by the Society, intituled, The Friends of the People, associated for the purpose of obtaining a Parliamentary Reform. 
ERSKINE 10565 It was transmitted to Ashton; and this letter is the answer of Ashton upon the receipt of it. 
ERSKINE 10566 “ DECLARATION, agreed to on the 11th of April, 1792, by the Society, entitled, j Tue Frrenps oF Tue Peopis, associatedfor the purpose of obtaining a PartiaMENTary Rerorm, 
ERSKINE 10567 “ A number of persons, having seriously reviewed and considered the actual situstia of public affairs, and state of the kingdoa, and having communicated to each othcr ther opinions on these subjects, have agreed ad determined tu institute a suciety, for the pa pose of proposing to parliament and to tk country, and of promoting, to the utmost d their power, the following constitutional ob jects, making the preservation of the cont. tution, on its true principles, the founda of all their proceedings. First, To restore the freedom of electxa, and a more equal representation of the pe ple in parliament. 
ERSKINE 10568 “ Secondly, ‘To secure to the people a mor frequent exercise of their right of elecus their representatives. 
ERSKINE 10569 “ The persons who have signed their names to this agreement, think, that these two fudamental measures, will furnish the port and the means of correcting the abuses, whe) appear to them to have arisen from a neglect of the acknowledged principles of the cc stitution, and of accomplishing those susdinate objects of reform, which they deem t be essential to the liberties of the people, ani to the good government of the kingdom. 
ERSKINE 10570 “Signed by 
ERSKINE 10571 “ Charles Grey, esq., M. P.; hon. Thoms Maitland, M.P.; George Rous, esq.; "i: liam Cuninghame, esq.; John Twedtel. esq.; earl of Lauderdale, Nicolls Raye ford, esq.; James Mackintosh, esq. ; The mas Christie, esq.; Malcolm Laing, es; right hon. Lord Kinnaird, James Archdck, esq.; William Harwood, esq.; David (sed frey, esq.; Higgins Eden, esq.; Philip Francis, esq, M. P.; Charles Goring, c Mr. Serjeant Bond, William Lushinz esq.; Samuel Rogers, esq.; Peres Dealtry, esq.; R. B. Sheridan, eq. M. P. William Fullarton, esq.; Norman Maclerd, esq. M. P.; James Losh, esq. ; Me. Alceman Sawbridge, M. P.; Richard Weil, esq.; John Claridge, esq.; John Wharton, esq., M. P.; James Martin, esq., M. Bs William Smith, esq.. M.P.; John Huford Stoue, esq.; W. H. Lambtos, a; M. P.; John ‘Coatrey, esq.; George Tie ney, esq.; Arthur Piggott, esg.; J. B Church, esq., M. P.; Gilbert Ironside, 4: T. B. Hollis, esq.; S. Whitbread, Ju2esq., M. P.; sir J. Throckmorton, bat; M. A. Taylor, esq., M. P.; William Br ton, esq. 
ERSKINE 10575 Meaning me, gentlemen. 
ERSKINE 10576 BR, Knight, eeq.; Thomas Thompsos, ¢: 
ERSKINE 10577 M. P.; colonel Tarleton, M. P.; John 
ERSKINE 10578 Scott, esq., M. P. 
ERSKINE 10579 “ Right honourable lord Kinnaird, George 
ERSKINE 10581 This gentleman is not John} Mr. Erskine, to Mr. Stuart.—The objects Scott, et but sir John Scott; they are bothof our society being communicated in this very good men, gentlemen. reas did you see letter 
ERSKINE 10583 Byog, elhnghent Croley, Darts, Geores of April, in all the newspapers ; and this let
ERSKINE 10599 I cannot speak from m 
ERSKINE 10600 House, ‘That the design of these associa-own recollection, but I take for granted, tist on receiving such a letter as that, the societr tions is completely to overturn the constitu‘tion, &c. And we are sorry that Mr. Bakerof the Friends of the People sent au answa’ —They did. , 
ERSKINE 10601 was under the disagreeable necessity of exi any reply come to that answer—lt id: 
ERSKINE 10602 plaining in answer to such gross assertions, without having it in his power to speak with precision to the principles and design of this and the similar societies, and to have united them with your’s in his explanation. For this, and similat reasons, we are induced to take the liberty of troubling you with the above and following sketch : Our associating, or ticket members, are now about 2,400; yet we have the satisfaction, with truth, to affirm, that not the least disorder, or confusion, hath made its appearance amongst us; all is unanimity, peace, and concord. As our members increase, the number of meeting places are increased in proportion, so as not to exceed at most thirty members at one place. All the circular meetings are held. once a fortnight, on the same evening ; our general meeting is held once a month, at three different houses, on the same day, generally very crowded, De good order and regularity is strictly attended to : and we doubt not, but what has been suggested to be impossible, will be fully manifested to be not only practicable, but easy to accomplish, viz. to introduce useful knowledge, good order, and regularity, into the minds and morals of the common, or lower 
ERSKINE 10603 OF course, in order to introduce the replt, it will be necessary to read first the answer of the society of the Friends of the Peopl— Gentlemen, this is in the year 1793; after tle motion in the House of Commons, the Society of the Friends of the People passed a vie thanks to all the societies in the kingion, that had assisted in procuring petitions to te House of Commons upon that measure, thit is ‘a letter acknowledging the receipt of the vote of thanks, and the sentiments of lk people, at Sheffield, mit,—Have you gt ote from Norwich, of the 10th of September 1792 
ERSKINE 10605 This is the answer sent that letter, is it
ERSKINE 10607 Was it signed by Mr. Grey 
ERSKINE 10622 Have you any letter received from the Hertfordshire Society 
ERSKINE 10624 Is that the letter? [showing it to the witness.]—This is the letter, dated October 1st, 1792. 
ERSKINE 10625 Was it read to the Society 
ERSKINE 10627 The clerk will now read this letter. 
ERSKINE 10629 I do not give up my right to read it. I will argue it by-and-by. 
ERSKINE 10670  and you can tell how many have been added to it ? 
ERSKINE 10682 You will state the names— I believe Mr. Goring is, but he bas withdrawn frem the Friends of the People. 
ERSKINE 10683 Dr. Towers is a member of the Friends of the People, and the Constitutional Society 
ERSKINE 10685 Major Cartwright
ERSKINE 10687 Mr. Batley
ERSKINE 10689 Mr. Thompson 
ERSKINE 10691 Mr. Walker 
ERSKINE 10693 Mr. Sharpe
ERSKINE 10695 You will tell us, Mr. At torncy General, which you know to be members of the Constitutional Society, it will save the time of the Court; I know the fact myself, that they do continue to be members. 
ERSKINE 10708  The reply to your answer was in the same moderate terms, which must have been later than the 26th
ERSKINE 10710 You were asked, by the attorney general, whether lord Selkirk’s eldest ur, le Daer, was and is a member of the society of the Friends of the People 
ERSKINE 10712 Did not every body know that lord Daer had been in the British Convention, at Edinburgh 
ERSKINE 10714 Every gentlernss in the Society of the Friends of the People, knew that lord Daer was a delegate there
ERSKINE 10716 Does he remain still a member of the Friends of the People 
ERSKINE 10718 Was there any motion made to expel him, or question his conduct on that account 
ERSKINE 10727 Did you ever know a man 
ERSKINE 10728 ; change from a constitutional man, to a republican, in one post? 
ERSKINE 10731  What is your trade
ERSKINE 10733 Did you attend regularly, in general 
ERSKINE 10735 What was your object in ming first, and afterwards continuing to be a member of that society 
ERSKINE 10737 By what means did you seek to obtain that reform, by the associations that were taking place at that time 
ERSKINE 10739 Why did you expect that petitioning, by having associations, and delegations from those associations, would be more successful than the ordinary way of petitioning 
ERSKINE 10741 From what you heard pass, and from the general proceedings of the society, had you any reason to believe, or have you now, while 
ERSKINE 10742 I am examining you, any reason to believethat the object of the society, in general, was different from your own
ERSKINE 10744 Which was the same end you had
ERSKINE 10746 You recollect, no doubt, the obligation under which you speak—that you are sworn to speak the truth
ERSKINE 10748 Then recollecting the sanction and solemnity under which you speak, do you declare it solemnly to be your helief now, ‘that that was the general object of your society 
ERSKINE 10750 If you had had any reason to believe that they intended to subvert the government— for as to touching the life of the king it is indecent to state it—if you had any reason to believe that they had the least idea to subvert the king’s authority, would you have belonged to the society 
ERSKINE 10752 If, having belonged to it, you had afterwards discovered that thet was the object of the society, would you have continued in it
ERSKINE 10754 If you had discovered—I am not talking of your own internal ideas, which indeed you have already communicated to us—but if you had discovered, from the conduct of the society, not what any one intemperate man might say or do, but if you had discovered, from the general conduct of that society, that its intention was mischievous, and that it meant to accomplish its purposes by force, would you have continued in it
ERSKINE 10756 ere you a member of the society when it sent a delegate to the Convention in Scotland
ERSKINE 10758 What did you understand your delegate was to do, representing your society in the Convention in Scotland; I mean what you understood, from what was said in your society at the time 
ERSKINE 10760 When this Mr. Campbell Brown was sent to Edinburgh, was he authorized to proceed in any way, towards any object, but the same constitutional objects which the society itself had in view
ERSKINE 10762 Do you remember a hand-bill
ERSKINE 10764 Do you remember any insults on offered to the society, or to any of its members 
ERSKINE 10766 Upon that occasion did you hear any thing said about the society having any pikes, or any thing for its defence 
ERSKINE 10768 If the design of the society had been, in general, to provide arms to carry on its objects, must you not have heard of it 
ERSKINE 10770 Were you ever in the committee 
ERSKINE 10772 Was it ever proposed by the committee to the society, or from the society to the committee, or ever mentioned in the society, that you were to have arms for your defence, against the government, or for an attack upon it
ERSKINE 10774 Then, until these people were taken up, aud this unfortunate business, which detains us here, originated—I ask you, as an honest man, whether you ever heard of such thing in your life, as arming, either to resist government, or to attack it
ERSKINE 10776 Had you any views, in the object of your association, which extended beyond the Commons House of Parliament
ERSKINE 10778 Isthat reasonable hope founded upon what you observed of their proceedings 
ERSKINE 10780 You say the duke of Richmond’s plan was the object
ERSKINE 10782 Was the object which the society at large had in view, the duke of Richmond’s plan, stated from time to time in the society
ERSKINE 10784 The society, in order to show that that was their object, published that letter to colonel Sharman? What was the reason of your society for circulating this letter 
ERSKINE 10786 From every thing then that you know of the poate of your owa Enowlecee, from your regular attendance uport it, did they tell to you to adhere to that object
ERSKINE 10840 A petition to parliament was 
ERSKINE 10854 We will tell you where he’ 
ERSKINE 10855 “ Mr. Davison had wrote a letter to Thomasis; he lives in London; I understand he is 
ERSKINE 10856 “ Hardy in London. 
ERSKINE 10857 When did you hear of that
ERSKINE 10859  Where do you live
ERSKINE 10861 What is your trade 
ERSKINE 10863 Were youa member of this society 
ERSKINE 10865 How long were you a member of it 
ERSKINE 10867 Were you a member of it up to the time 
ERSKINE 10868 ‘ apply tothe magistrates or government forwhen this business happened, these people. your defence, in case any of you were attackedwere taken up 
ERSKINE 10870 and illegally dispersed; do you recollect any proposition of that kind
ERSKINE 10872  What was your object in being a member of it
ERSKINE 10874 What did you mean by a parliamentary reform 
ERSKINE 10876 If there had been any proposition, muchRichmond and Mr. Pitt. 
ERSKINE 10877 more if there had been any preparation for 
ERSKINE 10878 Had you any of the duke of Richmond’s arming for such purposes, must you not haveletters to colonel Sharman 
ERSKINE 10880 heard it 
ERSKINE 10882 tured in Sheffield. 
ERSKINE 10883 rinted 
ERSKINE 10884 Is that one of them? piers 4 p ieve it 
ERSKINE 10885 I suppose this was read in the society fre 
ERSKINE 10886 At the time that this petition to parliamentquently 
ERSKINE 10888 was negatived, the delegates had not been sent to Scotland 
ERSKINE 10890 Do you remember this passage—“ Another subject of apprehension is, that the principle 
ERSKINE 10891 Was the petition that was negatived, a pe-| of allowing to every man an equal right to tition from the people of Sheffield, or a peti-vote, tends to equality in other respects, and tion from the delegates 
ERSKINE 10893 But was it ever voted that the delegates, men to oy from optression, and to the after they had assembled together to considerenjoyments of life and liberty, strikes me the best means of attaining it, was it ever| as perfectly compatible with their unequal voted that they should not petition
ERSKINE 10895 ‘Did you mean any thing connected with France
ERSKINE 10898 Or did you mean what you said now, equal representation in parliament
ERSKINE 10900 In what branch of parliament 
ERSKINE 10902 If you had observed, from attending upon the society, that other people’s objects were different from those you have expressed to be your own, would you have continued in it 
ERSKINE 10904 And though you had not clearly discovered it, if you had only reason to believe, or suspectit
ERSKINE 10906 Did you ever hear any thing in the society that ied you to believe that they wished to attack the king’s title, or attack the prerogative ofthecrown
ERSKINE 10908 What do you mean by 1688
ERSKINE 10910 You say you looked up to the duke of Richmond’s plan ; Task, upon your oath, whether you had any reason to believe that this plan of the duke of Richmond’s, or any other plan, was to be endeavoured to be accomplished by force
ERSKINE 10912 Did you ever hear in the society, in the course of your being there, any determination of carrying this by force of arms, not merely by your society, ina body, but your society and others joining
ERSKINE 10914 When was it that you heard of arming in Sheffield; if you ever did hear of arming
ERSKINE 10916 “ What effect had these papers, thrown about in the strects, and the advertisements in the Courant 
ERSKINE 10918 Did that letter, and things ofa similar sort, produce any alarm in the minds of the socicty
ERSKINE 10920 When this good news from the continent came, had you said any thing in the socet calculated to damp the joy which such gud news might infuse 
ERSKINE 10922 Had your society assembled to disturb thea in any thing they should say or do abouts victory 
ERSKINE 10924 Had you given any offence of any kin them, to your knowledge 
ERSKINE 10926 Notwithstanding that, did your societyet: regularly arm themselves 
ERSKINE 10928 as there any proposition ever, that ty should have armed themselves to have rea ed the magistrates
ERSKINE 10930 Whether you had then reason, or haveto to believe that there was any detennmi in the society to pursue such means 
ERSKINE 10932 You say they used to call you a demom!: —Yes, 
ERSKINE 10933 As a person that did not love the king! do not know what they might think. 
ERSKINE 10934 You can tell how you feltit in yourmind’ understood by the word democrat thatl wit ed a more equal representation in the Howe of Commons, but never by any violence f 
ERSKINE 10935 Had you ever any wish in your owD ar or was it your object in becoming 4 me of that society, to touch or affect your 9 reign in any respect
ERSKINE 10937 5 help you God, is that s0 
ERSKINE 10974 Is that a proper question? 
ERSKINE 11158 It was only a petition from the people at Sheffield, that was negatived, was it
ERSKINE 11160 I next propose to read this Jetter from his grace the duke of Richmond to colonel Sharman; it has been stated by one or two of the witnesses; but if it is thought more regular, I will call the duke himself; I believe his grace is in attendance. 
ERSKINE 11161  Mr. Erskine
ERSKINE 11165 Please to look at this pamphlet
ERSKINE 11167 Does your grace think, that by casting your eye over it, with attention, you should be able to answer that question 
ERSKINE 11174 Is this the Journal of the Lords House of Parliament of the year 1780? 
ERSKINE 11175 —It is. 
ERSKINE 11176 Mr. Erskine to the Duke of Richmond
ERSKINE 11178 House, for considering a motion for appointing a committee, and afterwards there follows a protest, signed. by your grace, and a great number of very illustrious peers of this country, among the rest I see the name of earl Camden.—Will your grace have the goodness to tell me if that is your signature to the protest 
ERSKINE 11181 I will state the nature of this evidence which I offer 3 I will also state upon. what principle I conceive it to be evidence, unless the attorney general shall think it a more regular way for me to content myself with stating the nature of it, leaving to him, in the first instance, to frame his objection, and for me to answer it
ERSKINE 11184 They do expressly. 
ERSKINE 11186 I do state that, and I mean to read it, 
ERSKINE 11188 Just so. 
ERSKINE 11190 I.am much interested in avoiding objections, because I am hardly able to go through the common examination without that. ‘The noble lords in the protest, state their reasons for that Protest; and without reading this, which I have no rick to do, till your lortab! s shall be please! b receive it in evidence, I shall be in order, if! only state what I take to be the general sstance of it; and if I, in stating that, shou: step beyond what the aper itself should sf terwards show when admitted, then I am pesuaded I shall have given very just offence the Court. The noble lords, among wha are his grace the duke of Richmond the wit ness, lord Camden, and others, whose name are not material, upon the rejection of ths motion, protest, beeause they conceive it be the duty of the House to listen to the wil of the people; this is evidence to prom, that when these very numerous assoczel bodies presented their petitions, in cus quence of having had committees to co-op rate with one another, that the House caudered that, although it might be natn enough to reject the petitions of private sa et when the people were in large 2 
ERSKINE 11191 Teniies, co-operating with one another, a order to speak what was the will of avey consitersiite portion of the people (more pecially if it should at last come to bet majority of the public) that it a alg 2 never to be invaded, nor argued away, the will of the people: 
ERSKINE 11193 I am much obliged to you I was sure that would come from you;sure your lordship, that Mr. Gibbs and I hare read it, and we do think it is material et dence. 
ERSKINE 11194 “ Die Martis, 8 Februarii, 1780. 
ERSKINE 11195 he order of the day being read, Tut all the Lords be summoned to attend the House this day, to consider of a motion far appointing a committee consisting of mem bers of both Houses, possessing neither ei ployment nor pension, to examlne without delay into the public expenditure, x mode of accounting for the same, more part cularly into the manner of making all om tracts; and at the same time to take into consideration what savings can be made cor sistent with public dignity, justice, and grt tude, by an abolition of old or new crested offices, or reversion of offices, the duties of whichhave either ceased, or stall a inquiry prove inadequate to the fees ; other emoluments arising therefrom, by the reduction of such salaries, or fe ailowances and pratt as may appeat vied unreasonable ; that the same may be app! to lessen the present ruinous y spent and to enable us to carry on the present war against the house of Bourbon, with that decision and vigour which can alone result from national zeal, confidence, and unanimity. t was moved, That a committee be appointed, consisting of membersof both Houses h Possessing neither employment nor pension, to examine without delay into the public expendi4 ture, and the mode of accounting for the same, more particularty into the manner of making all contracts; and, at the same time, to take into consideration what saving can be made, consistent with public dignity, justice, and graF titude, by an abolition cole and view ereaten 8 offices, the duties of which have either ceased 43 or shall on inquiry prove inadequate to the s fees or other emoluments arising therefrom, or by the reduction of such salaries or other ti allowances and profits as may appear to be 4 unreasonable: that the same may be applied & to lessen the present ruinous expenditure, t and to enable us to provide in the manner i the least burthensome for the indispensable y exigencies of the state. a“ Which being objected to, after long de; bate, the following amendment was proposed to be made to the said motion, viz. leave out the words members of both Houses, and instead thereof insert Lords. he same was agreed to and ordered ac- cordingly. hen the question was put, whether to agree to the said motion thus amended ? “ It was resolved in the negative. “Contents «.0s000050 
ERSKINE 11196 “ Proxies eoccesccacee 5 
ERSKINE 11197 Total 55 “Non-contents 
ERSKINE 11199 Total 101 
ERSKINE 11200 “¢ Dissentient,—First, because however the waste of public money, and the profusion of useless salaries, may’ have been heretofore overlooked in the days of wealth and prosperity, the necessities of the present time can no longer endure the same system of corruption and prodigality. 
ERSKINE 11201 “¢ The scarcity of money, the diminished value of land, the sinking of rents, with the decline of trade, are melancholy proofs that we are almost arrived at the end of taxation ; and yet the demands are annually increased, while the hopes of peace are every year put to a greater distance. 
ERSKINE 11202 «¢ For let any man consider the immense debt, increasing beyond the possibility of payment, with the present accumulation of taxes upon every article, not only of luxury, but of cenvenience, and even of necessary use; and let him carry his thoughts forward to those additional duties which must immediately be imposed, to make good the interest of the approaching loan, and of that debt which wilt still remain unfunded, he will find that, at least one million and an half of interest must be provided for, besides what may be farther necessary, to make good the deficiencies of the late taxes. 
ERSKINE 11203 “ Under these circumstances, the savings’ of a strict and vigilant econumy in every branch, and the application of overgrown: salaries, unmerited pensions, and useless: places to the public service, are almost the only resources left in the exhausted state of our finances. But besides this strongargument of necessity that presses upon the present moment, such and so great are the abuses in the management and expenditure of the public money, as would call. for the strictest inquiry and animadversion even in the best of tumes. The practice of expending immense sums without consent of parliament under the fallacious head of contingencies and extraordinaries, the greater part of which might easily be comprised in an estimate, but because some unforeseen articles are not capable of such precision the minister has, under that colour, found out a method of expending the ublic money first, ad libitum, and when it as been so expended, has found means to’ induce parliament to think itself bound in honour to ratify and make it good, deserves the highest censure; and no minister who shall Gare to stake the public credit for money that las not been voted, ought to be justified by a less authority than an act ofindeme nity. The millions which remain in conseuence unexplained and unaccounted for— the shameful facility of admitting almost every claim —the improvident bargains made for the public service—the criminal neglect, and even contempt of the few checks established in the Board of Treasury, besides great part of the money being shared in its passage among a tribe of collectors, clerks, agents, jo bers, or contractors, or paid away by oficial extortion, or stopt in its course to breed interest for some engrossing individuals are grievances which the present motion has in view to remedy. 
ERSKINE 11204 “ Secondly, but great and important as the motion is in this view of it, it is still more important in another, as it tends to‘narrow the wide-spreading influence of the Crown, that’ has found its way into every corner of the kingdom. ‘ 
ERSKINE 11205 “It is sufficient to allude to this grievance without any farther enlargement; but this argument, though, perhaps, the strongest in favour of the motion, has been turned into an objection to it, as if it meant to abridge the’ rights of monarchy, and make the Crown de pendent upon the parliament, 
ERSKINE 11206 “If the objection means to insinuate, that’ 
ERSKINE 11207 corruption is necessary to government, we: shall feave that principle to confute itself by its own apparent iniquity. 
ERSKINE 11208 “ That this motion is intended to diminish theconstitutional power of the Crown, we deny; the constitutional power of the Crown we are no less sulicitous to preserve than we are to annihilate its unconstitutional influence. The prerogative, rightly uuderstood, nat touched, or intended to be touched by this motion, will support the Crown in all the splendour which the King’s personal dignity requires, and with all the authority and vigour necessary to give due effect to the executive powers of government. 
ERSKINE 11209 it has been argued, that this is not a proper time fur reformation, when all the attention of the kingdum should be employed upon the war, as the great and only object in the present time of distress; to which we beg eave to insist, that the present is, for that very reason, the properest time, because nothing is so essential to the conduct and proSecutiun of the war as the frugal management of that supply, by which only it can be carried on with any prospect of success; nor ought the plan of economy to be any longer delayed at the risk of a general bankruptcy ; and, trom the history of this as well as other countries, times of necessity have been always times of reform. 
ERSKINE 11210 hirdly, because we conceive that the mode of a committee, which might be to act with a committee of the other House, and might, if necessary, be rendered durable, and vested with due powers by an act of the whole legislature might bring back the public expenditure to its constitutional principle; might devise proper regulations for opening contracts to the proposals of every fair bidder, for reforming the abuses of office and the enormity of fees, with a variety of other abuses, particularly that of large sums of money lying in the hands of individuals, to the loss of the state. 
ERSKINE 11211 “ An objection has been strongly urged on the ground of an apprehension expressed by some lords, as if they seriously entertained it, of its producing a quarrel between the two houses of parliament, in consequence of which the public business might be obstructed, by a claim on the part of the House of Commons to an exclusive right of considering and providing for the subjects of this motion. 
ERSKINE 11212 “ Such aclaim certainly cannot be supported as a consequence of the claim of that House to originate money bills. Not a single lord Bpbeared to entertain an idea that such a claim would be well founded. In truth, the objection supposes it to be ill-founded, and that therefore this House will resist it, and yet it assumes that the House of Commons will advance and persist in this ill-founded claim, We cannot discover any colour for such a supposition, unless we were to adopt the insinuations of those who represent the corrupt influence (which it is our wish to supress) as already pervading that House. Those who entertain that opinion of one House of Parliament, will hardly think less disrespectfully of the other. To them it willsen a matter of indifference whether the moto is defeated by the exertion of that influence to excite a groundless claim in the one hous, or by a groundless apprehension of such s claim in the other. But we, who would be understood to think with more respect of both, cannot entertain an apprehension so injurious to the House of Commons, as that they would, at this time especially, and on this occasion, have advanced such a claim. 
ERSKINE 11213 “ The motion has likewise been objected to on account of its disqualifying persons posessing employments or pensions, to be of the proposed committee. We are far from supposing, that the possession of place pension, necessarily corrupts the itegnty of the possessor. We have seen, and th public have seen, many illustrious instances to the contrary; yet we cannot but sup pose that the public expectation of advantage from this measure would have beea less sanguine, if they had seen persoss possessing offices selected to distinguish how far their offices were useful, or their salaries adequate. ‘hey, perhaps, would not thisk the possessor of a pension, or office, the fittest judge how far that pension or office had been merited, or was necessary. We cannot there fore think the motion justly exceptionable on this ground; it rather appears to usb have been drawn with a proper attention to noble lords in that predicament, exempting them from a situation which they must necer sarily wish to decline. 
ERSKINE 11214 “We conceive ourselves warranted, in the mode poposed, by precedent as well as reasoa and it was stated to the House to have beea recommended by the most approved constitutional authors, who have written since the revolution; but having offered to meet any other proposition which might carry with it substantial remedy, and no such being offered notwithstanding the time this proposition has lain before the House, we cannot help consdering the present negative as going to the substantial as well as formal part of the mo tion, and hold ourselves obliged to avail ouselves of our right of entering our protest against the rejection of the above propositiot. 
ERSKINE 11215 “ Fourthly, we are farther impelled to press this motion, because the object of it has been seconded and called for by a considerable majority of the people, who are associating this purpose, and seem determined to pursue it by every legal and constitutional me that can be devised forits success ; and however some may affect to be alarmed, asif such associations tended to disturb the peace, & encroach upon the delegated power of the other House, we are persuaded it hasno otber view, but to collect the sense of the peo and to inform the whole body of the represe tatives what are the sentiments of the body of their constituents, in which respect their proceedings have been orderly, pes able, and constitutional ; and if it be asked 
ERSKINE 11216 ‘ what farther is to be done, if these petitions are rejected, the best answer is, that the case cannot be supposed ; for although, upon a few separate petitions, it may be fairly said, that the other House ought not to be decided by a part only of their constituents, yetit cannot be presumed they will act in defiance of the united wishes of the whole people, or indeed of any great and notorious majority. It is is admitied that they have a power to vote as they think fit; butit is not possible to conceive that so wise an assembly will ever be rash enough to reject such petitions, and by thatmeans cause this dangerous question to be broached and agitated, whether they have not broke their trust ? 
ERSKINE 11217 he voice of the people will certainly be complied with. Ministers may, as they seem to have done in a recent instance, deprive any man of what he holds at their pleasure, for presuming to exercise his undoubted right of thinking for himself, on these or other public subjects ; but it will not be wise in them totreat these associations with contempt, or call them by the invidious name of faction; a name by which the minority, in both Houses of Parliament, have been so frequently and so falsely calumniated, because the name, so applied, will recoil back upon themselves, when acting eee the general sense of the nation. Nor will they be able to represent these numbers, so respectable in rank and property, as they did but too successfully the discontented Americans, as a mob of indigent and seditious incendiaries, because the people to whom this is addressed, are the very people that are abused, and every man bears withi himself the testimony of its falsehood. 
ERSKINE 11218 The ministers, on this particular occasion, cannot deceive the people. 
ERSKINE 11219 “Fortescue, Harcourt, De Ferrars, Beaulieu, Camden, Coventry, Richmond, Manchester, Derby, Effingham, Grafton, Portland, Ferrers, Chofmondely, King, Abervenny, J. Peterborough, Abingdon, Pembroke and Montgomery, Fitzwilliam, Rutland, Nug. Temple, Bolton, Courtenay, Stamford, Tankerville, J. St. Asaph, Wycombe, Craven, Rockingham, Scarborough, Jersey, Devonshire
ERSKINE 11221 I call back this gentleman only for the purpose of asking him one question, which could not wit Propriety ask him before; you stated, in your former examination, your personal acquaintance with the prisoner at the bar, and your transactions with him before ; did you ever hear him state what his plan of reform was 
ERSKINE 11223 Was that said to you publicly, or in the privacy of confidence 
ERSKINE 11226 Then I will now defend this question ; I am persuaded your lordships will not refuse to the unfortunate man at the bar,, that evidence which has been received for, every prisoner under similar circumstances, from the earliest times of our history to the present moment. I am sorry to consume the, time of the court, but if I am called upon I will repeat to your lordships, verbatim, from the State Trials, various questions upon similar occasions, put by different fa by consent of all the judges, all the attorney generals, and solicitor generals, and counsel for the Crown. I only wish to know whether the, question is objected to or not. 
ERSKINE 11228 I will proceed, and I have much more pleasure in doing it from the manner in which the attorney general conducted himself recently, because the moment that it was stated as a proceeding which, we thought, might be serviceable to the prisoner, and consistent with the rules of evidence, he. instantly acceded to its production—therefore, independent of satisfying your lordships, if I cun satisfy my learned friend that we are in the regular course, I am persuaded he would be sorry, himself, that this prisoner should be deprived of the advantage which all others have enjoyed. 
ERSKINE 11229 Ibelieve the reason why a matter of this sort falls into debate, is the very singular anomaly of the case before your lordships, and I am the more inclined to think thatI shall succeed in the little that I have to offer to you from what fell from the learned judges of the court of King’s-bench. (two of whom are now present) when it was discussed how fara. paper that had been published in the year 1780, which was supposed to have been written by some persons of rank, should have been. received in evidence by Mr. Justice Wilson, who tried an individual in the year 1793, fora libel
ERSKINE 11232 The case of Daniel Holt; and upon this ground, they say, you may rebut evidence fitch fastens any thing that is wrong upon you, undoubtedly, but because a rson has published a libel, supposing it to Pe one, in the year 1780, that will be no answer to your publishing a libelin the year 1793. It may be matter extremely material in mitigation of punishment, but, said the Court, it is not strictly evidence, because it does not go to negative the gist of the indictment; for nup aang itto have been received by the judge, he could not have told the jury, if he thought, in point of Jaw, the publication wasa libel, that the publication of the same libel by any other person, however respectable, at any other time, was a shield against the criminal laws attaching upon the defendant in that case; and upon that ground I do know that that most intelligent judge, whose loss we all in common deplore, decided it; and, as the court of King’s-bench determined, rightly decided it. 
ERSKINE 11233 Unless I deceive myself greatly, and unless T have lost the faculty of seeing whether Iam assented to, when laying down any proposition (which when man speaks to man 1s in general not very diflicult to see) I rather think am in possession of the opinion of the court in the striking difference between the case Now in agitation, and a case where a man is charged with a fact, which fact, if it be done, the criminal intention, which arises from the commission of the criminal act, carries with it acertain legal inference, which legal inference, being once established, it does not become a matter of fact for the prisoner to endeavour to rebut. 
ERSKINE 11234 But leaving out of the question all consideration of that act of parliament, I stand upon the authority of lord Mansfield, in the case of the king against Woodfall the printer, reported in sir James Burrow’s fifth volume: That wherever the fact does constitute the crime, but that the fact is either in itself wholly indifferent, or if it is not indifferent but criminal ; if it be criminal, short of the charge that is made upon the party, that there the intention is not matter of law, but that it is matter of fact, and that the party has a right to prove his intention in every way, by which the intention of a man can be safely, or reasonably collected
ERSKINE 11236 Now, what is the present case 
ERSKINE 11238 ‘most detestable imagination, he did the spec fic acts charged upon the record; that is say, that he agreed to assemble a conventia to be held which was not held—that he ca. spired to hold it, for the purpose of subse ting the rule and authority of the cousin, and not that alone, but that he consented te hold such convention, which convention, 2 his mind, was to accomplish the purpose of the subversion of the government, and thathe did agree to assemble that cunvention for the purpose of that subversion in fulfilment, nit that the other is the consequence of it, but fulfilment of the detestable purpose of compassing the king’s death. 
ERSKINE 11239 Here then the intention of the mind is tz question which the jury have to try; and think I may appeal to what passed in the Court on Saturday, that I did not seek to by down other rules of evidence than those thst have been most recently stated, and those tht have been determined in ancient times— Then, that being the case, let us see whelhet the declarations of a prisoner, charged with an evil and wicked intention—declarations 4 the time, or about the time—nay, I wil! 9 farther, since put to it generally, I sv! will prove (which is not this case by-the-bs, for my case does not require it) that if[, «40 am now speaking to your lordships, charged with the detestable purpose of com passing the king’s death, 1 should be intiti! to callany man in Court—not to my chr racter—but I should be intitled to call evey tan in Court who knows my sentimests, (which are well known upon these subjecs! what I have repeatedly declared with regard to the monarchy of this country, and its uulitt to the system of our government; but thot I should establish it clearly in twenty insta ces, or till your lordships desire me to farther, still it would not be so evident as It's in this case, that the intention of these pesons, and the object which they had in view was, to follow the plan of the duke of Richmond. — 
ERSKINE 11240 The first caseI will cite is the most mode, but not the least important, the case of k George Gordon, and I say it is the most 12 portant, because there he is not c with compassing the death of the king, but be charged with an act, with levying war; but stillit was necessary in the investigation of that question, since itis not that open rebellious war which every man must give the same name to, which nobody could explain away by evidence, but it being an ambiguous thing, a sort of constructive levying of war, the intention of his mind becomes the subject of consideration. I will read to your lordships the very words and syllables stated by lord Mansfield upon that occasion
ERSKINE 11242 “First, whether this multitude did assemble and commit acts of violence, with intent to terrify and compel the legislature to repeal the act called sir George Savile’s? if upon this point your opinion should be in the negative, that makes an end of the whole, and the prisoner ought to be acquitted: but if your opinion should be, that the intent of this multitude, and the violence they committed, was to force a repeal, there arises a second point, whether the prisoner at the bar incited, encouraged, promoted, or assisted ,in raising this insurrection, and the terror they carried with them, with the intent of forcing a repeal of this law, If upon this point your opinion (speaking to the jury), should be in the negative, that makes an end of the whole, aod the prisoner must be acquitted: but if you think it was the intention of the multitude, and the violence they committed was to force a repeal, the second question arises whether the prisoner incited, promoted, or asSisted in raising this insurrection, with the intent,—not with the incitement to make a riot, and break my windows, or pull down any man’s house, which might have been felony under the riot act, if not dispersed, or might have been a misdemeanor according to the hatute of the violence committed
ERSKINE 11244 Then the first is a preliminary one, without which, says my lord Mansfield, my lord Gcorge Gordon must be scquitied ; but if you are of opinion that the multitude did commit the violence, which no man is disposed much to forget, whether lord George GordoninCited them to it? No—but whether he incited them with that mind which constituted the crime? 
ERSKINE 11245 Now I will read all the questions that he permitted to be asked upon that trial—The trial was conducted by men of the most acknowledged learning, one, indeed, whose learning, acuteness, and knowledge of the common law of England is almost proverbial, the late Mr. Wallace: the other gentleman, Mr. Mansficld, had long practised in the courts of common law, and they were by no Means disposed to give up any thing; they would have been drial ifthey had. There an opposite duty in every trial; there is a duty in those concerned for the crown, to a port the proper evidence for the crown; and2 similar duty also upon the counsel for the risoner, and he is as much criminal who relaxes the one as he who relaxes the other, though when it is in favour of a criminal it would not strike the mind so much; but I think that a crown lawyer has a right to insist upon every fair evidence coming before a jury, and to exclude every thing which may improperly operate. 
ERSKINE 11246 he counsel for lord George Gordon were the present lord Kenyon, lord chief justice of the King’s-bench, and myself, who have now the honour to speak to the Court; and I was permitted to ask the reverend Erasmus Middleton (the first witness, and therefore his examination fell to me as junior in the cause), these questions, I should tell your ships, to make it more intelligible, that the great object was, to see what intention lord George Gordon had, which could be collected only from what passed before; “ Did you, at any of these numerous meetings of this Protestant Association, which you attended from the time lord George Gordon became president of that society, (which was two years before) “ till the 29th of May; did you ever hear lord George Gordon, in his public speeches in that association, make use of apy expressions, which showed any disloyal, or unconstitutional intentions in him
ERSKINE 11248 ‘ding Society, say that the duke of Richmond’s plan was his object? he might say it there for the purpose of its afterwards being given in evidence that he had poet saw that ; if that may be asked, how is it possible to oppose the other
ERSKINE 11250 Lord Kenyon then examined the present earl of Mansfield, at that time viscount Stormont, of every thing said by lord George Gordon, at St. James's, when he came to ask an audience of the king, and tendered his services to suppress the riots. He called after‘wards sir Philip Jennings Clerk, lord Lonsdale, and many other witnesses, to conversations with lord George Gordon both before and after, and to every part of his conduct and deportment upon that occasion
ERSKINE 11252 The next case I shall state is that of my lord Russell, who was indicted for compassing the king’s death, and the overt act was consulting to raise rebellion, and to seize the king’s guards. In his defence he called many persons of quality to speak to his affection towards the government, and his detestation of risings against it; I will pauseherea minute, 
ERSKINE 11253 ‘—why a man might have a great deal of affection to the government in the year 1780, and might change upon the subject, but yet the criminal law of England looks out industriously to see how it can interpose in favour of liberty and life, not trying how it can shut out the light, but how it can let it shine in; even that question, which I do not think one of the strictest, was suffered to be let in, because Dr. Burnet had had a long acquaintance with lord Russell, and lord Russell ight not have conceived the purposes of re‘bellion till a short time before; but I shall ask, as to the time when they say this man’s mind was full of this conspiracy, so horrible in its nature, what were the sentiments which he was pouring into the bosom of his friend, as the object of all these societies, “ Doctor Burnet, (says lord Russell) “ if you please to give some account of my conversation? Doctor Burnet says, “ I have had the honor to be known to my lord Russell several years, and he hath declared himself with much confidence to me, and he always, upon all occasions, ig gga himself against all risings. Now this is not character, to say that lord Russell was a quiet, peaceable man ; no, this is evidence of conversation, my lordtherefore it is not th you are to raise a probability upon the subject by the general nature ofa man’s character, «t what you think of him; but it shall be ali. ed to witnesses to say what the person tnin: has expressed, because it raises an intni improbability of his being golly of the crize imputed to him; doctor Burnet says, “x always expressed himself against all nsinzx: and when he spoke of some people that wa provoke to it, he expressed himself so dexmined against that matter, I think nom: could do more.—Does his saying this, x quit lord Russell of this rising; you heardi.2 say he was against all such risings as ares the subject of inquiry before you
ERSKINE 11255 Doctor Cox was then asked thetions by lord Russell, and he says, “I bue heard him profess, solemnly, he thought it would ruin the best cause in the world toule any of these irregular ways for the presents of it. —Your lordships will give me leave pause again here.—This is not evena decintion of lord Russell, indicative of his gene! ideas, but upon the very point of trial; tu he, doctor Cox, had heard the prisoner & press his indignation and contempt for pre ceedings like those imputed to him—As! along, let me bring back to your lost consideration what it is I want to have a much more recent authority, the thority of one of your lordships, sixe cause began, What, shall a man not bed: lowed to explain his own meaning? If 1" ness had said, the defendant held a comes tion for the purpose of overturning iad vernment, still I should have thought Ibsright to examine the evidence, wheres att expression goes directly in the teeth of he has written; but where, as your ad has expressed upon another occasion, ial upon the surface a thing appears to be that the crime consists in the veil and corer’: of a wicked and detestable purpose, that om matter of fact merely—a matter oserious investigation, that your 1 take it as a matter that no mad, 0 life, between man and man, would throw his neighbour, but upon the most claw, satisfactory proof; ground that we have aright to raise up in the minds of the Court an intrinsic evidence, to operate as character does, for how is it that character is admitted against a fact
ERSKINE 11257 Mr. Luton Gore, and doctor Fitzwilliams were examined to the same point;this trial was before lord chief justice Pemberton; sir Robert Sawyer, whose name I have had occasion to mention (who was nota gentleman fond of making very great concessions, I do not mean to say he ought, he was a most rigid man), was attorney general, the celebrated Mr. Finch was solicitor gencral, and upon that trial your lordship sees all these questions are put without any objection. 
ERSKINE 11258 The next case is that of Thomas Rosewellt who was a dissenting minister; he was indicted for preaching a treasonable sermon ; besides giving evidence directly denying the charge, fe called several of his conregation to prove that he generally kept the 30th of January as a fast, and frequently reached in favour of kingly government. Now only consider the difference of these two cases ; there the preaching the sermon was proved—lI have looked at the trial, because I saw this question brewing some days since, and therefore prepared myself for it, Rosewell was char with the publication of a libel in preaching this sermon; of a libel, for we all know that words cannot amount to high treason, but they may be so indecent as to be libellous, and may be of a treasonable nature, according to the subject. Then what was the evidence against the defendant? It was that A. B. C. D. heard him say the words; what is his answer to that? not at all what mine is, he wanted to raise up before the court and jury, a probability that the witnesses were either perjured or mistaken, because of the improbability that a man, who kept regularly the fast of the 30th of January, and who preached regularly in favour of the kingly government, should upon any one given occasion, such as imputed, have contradicted the general habits of his life, and Jibelled that government which he was accustomed to support ; but that is not my view in calling Mr. Stuart, for my learned friends have fixed no such object upon my client ; he has called a convention they say, and the say farther that he did it for a purpose, whic! I deny, and in fulfilment of another purpose, which I deny
ERSKINE 11260 John Ashton was indicted, in 2 William and Mary, for a conspiracy to dethrone kin William, and compass his death ; the counse for the crown, in the opening, charged the prisoner with an intention to introduce popery ; in answer to which he gives evidence, which is to be found in the State Trialst of his zeal for the Protestant religion, and aversion to Popery. 
ERSKINE 11261 The crown say, that Mr. Hardy conspired to call this convention, which was to be assembled of delegates from some societies, of one of which he was secretary; which convention was to be assembled for the detestable purpose of subverting the government, deposing the king, and procuring his death; therefere I want to prove what was at that time the state of this man’s mind; what it was that he was constantly considering, erroneously, or otherwise; and upon this case it is not necessary for me to justify what the illustrious person, who is here present, has published ; whether it was wise, discreet, and egal in the duke of Richmond to publish that, I have nothing to do with; and if my client were charged with publishing that which is put into the hands of the witness, after what has been ruled in the King’s-bench 
ERSKINE 11262 I should not have offered it, because your lordships would have said that the publication of this as a libel, which constitutes that crime, would not be protected by the duke of Richmond having published the same libel at another time; or with your intention being only to publish that which the duke had set you the example to publish
ERSKINE 11264 My lord, in the case I last stated, doctor Fitzwilliams, one of the witnesses examined upon this point, says, “ he, (that is the defendant) has always taken occasion, that I know several times, both at St. James’s and at Edinburgh, to testify his zeal against Popery. —The very charge upon the record being restore king James and bring in Pppery. The man's mind is proposed to be, and i consented by judges to be decyphered, oaleat quantum ‘valere potest, by his uniform declare tions of his detestation of those principles whicl the charge supposes him to have entertained. This trial was before that mos excellent judge lord chief justice Holt, and was conducted on the part of the crown ty serjeants Thompson and Tremain. 
ERSKINE 11265 The next is the case of sir John Freind, whose trial you have heard ef in the course of the cause, who was indicted for compassing the death of king William, and promoting an invasion and rebellion within the realm ; and in his defence he called many witnesses, ot to his character, for I take it that the meaning of witnesses to character is this,—for instame, put the case of a man who is charged wilb 4 crime of any particular description, suppose man charged with an unnatural crime, would it be any evidence at all to: that man’s character that he paid his bills regularly, ane that he was not a dishonest man, or a0y thing of that sort? No, your examination to character must always be analogous to the nature of the charge, and you would there inquire, whether he was a man of chastity, vou would inquire into his re; for women, into his morals, and into his conversation, so as it might rebuff any such horrible and detestable idea having passed in his mind, that he wasa man capable, in the ordinary course of his life, of efttertaining such opinions, and making use of such expressions; so if a man is indicted for any other offence, if a man is idicted for a robbery, I say I will show you that he was not a necessitous man, that he por sessed a large fortune at that time, that be was a man whose ideas were moral and ttally contrary to any such practice, that is the nature of character; but ] am not even ask ing that, I have been allowed to ask alreadr, and was not obstructed in it, as to Mr. Hardy's character for peace and quietness, but I am not asking that; butin the cases I have cited, that general character was permitted farther to be evidenced by that which it always mest produce, “¢ out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh ; it does not always speak out of the fulness of the heart in public, ia private it ever does, but whether it does of not I am not inquiring into
ERSKINE 11267 In sir John Freind’s case, he says to the witnegs—“ When you have been in my com: pany, and they have been speaking of the government, what have I said or done? Is that any thing like character? Suppose at ! familiar case, this moment I should turn about to Mr. Stuart and say, when you have been speaking of government with Mr. Hardy, what has he gail or done? If my friend chooses to close the debate here, I will change my question to that, when you have been speaking with Mr. Hardy, upon the subject of the government of Great Britain, what has he said, or done? Why, says he, whenever I made use of any Teflecting words upon the subject, he was used to say forbear. The prisoner asks “ What -have you heard me speak of the French, and about any thing of an invasion? how I would ; 
ERSKINE 11268 venture my life for the Protestant religion or any thing of that
ERSKINE 11270 The attorney general will not, he cannot, think, after what I have said in the course of the cause, that I mean to insinuate any thing disrespectful to him, but only that this prisoner may have full measure, and not more than the full measure ; I think he has just as little right to have any more, as you have to refuse him that which he has. Mr. Lupton ays,“ TI have often heard you say, as to the Present government, that though you could Dot comply with it, you would live peaceably under it; when we have been talking of these things, you said you never would be ina plot. Now try that,—when I have been conversing with Mr. Hardy, he said he went upon the duke of Richmond’s plan, but he ever would be concerned in any plot against a government, never do any thing that was a conspiracy, but meant to limit his intention to any exertions to any given thing the witness will say, and whichIcertainly shall not put into his mouth. 
ERSKINE 11271 The next case is in 8 William 3rd, Peter Cvok’s case, who was indicted for the same treason of which sir John Freind was convicted, and the prisoner in his defence goes exactly to the same kind of evidence adduced i a the former trial. Mr. Serjeant Darnell, who was counsel for the prisoner, says, “ What have you heard the prisoncr say about our fleet or army? What has that to do with his character? it was to negative the probability of his wishing to bring to destruction our army and navy, and to bring in a foreign prince who had been expelled from this country for not recollecting what rights Belonged to the people of this country; he says, “I have heard him very much wish prosperity and success to our fleet. 
ERSKINE 11272 The next is the case of Dammaree, that familiar case which we hear of almost every day, in illustration of the principle of constructive levying war; he was a badge waterman to queen Anne; he was tried for pulling down a meeting house, and which Mr. Justice Foster says, “ was held to bea constructive levying of war, and which was not put as an overt act of compassing the king’s death. This is a very particular case, here is a man taken in the fact of pulling down a meeting house. Good God! I care not for his affection—if a man is taken in pulling down a mecting house, the law says he is guilty of high treason, for he absolutely does an act which, in construction of law, is a levying war against the king. A man may say I did not intend to levy war: a man comes with a hundred men, and is caught paling down my house, and says I did not intend to hurt you; here is an ambiguous thing, a thing which if it be said not to be ieeak is totally different from the charge in the indictment; and the office of my learned friend, who objects to my question, is to turn it round and to put a different construction ; to put the worst construction, instead of the best construction, upon this man's conduct, and I am seeking to prove that probability, by the same rules of evidence ever adopted, not in a case like this, where the intention constitutes the crime ; where it is voluntus pro facto, but in cases, even where it is factum pro toluntate ; I say when men assemble in teat numbers to pull down all meeting ouses; for though it would be difficult in the time ‘of Edward 3rd, to say that that ‘was what our ancestors meant by levying war, putting that aside, not to get into interlocutory debates in the middle of an argument, I say this is a peculiar and anomalous case, that its parallel is not to be found throughout the whole circle of the law, and for this wise reason, that his majesty’s life is so dear, his majesty’s life is so interwoven with the whole principle of the state ; his life, as chief magistrate, being that which if destroyed might bring on a convulsion in the country, which convulsion might deprive us of all that is dear to us, the law wisely makes the intention to destroy the king as guilty as the accomplishment, but then the intention is not any thing that you can argue into intention, but must be deduced from acts, which the jury must believe to have flowed from his mind and to have been the effect of that wicked and detestable purpose; why then, surely when that is the case, I have a right to ask whether the prisoner meant to pursue the duke of Richmond's plan? and leaving to your lordship and the jury to infer what I thought it would have been an insult to ask, whether, in merely following the plan of a person of illustrious birth, together with a great number of respectable persons some years ago, he meant to commit the crime imputed by this indictment? Surely it gues most strongly to negative that which constitutes the essence of this crime. 
ERSKINE 11273 Upon the examination of John Michaelmas, Mr. Whitaker, the counsel for Dammaree asked,“ was he disaffected to the queen and government? he says, “,I believe no man better affected. “At any times when there have been public rejoicings for any victories, how has he behaved himself? Now the first question is as to character, as aflected or disatfected, collecting it generally; but the second is to what has he said, how has he behaved at times of public rejoicings; when you have conversed with him, how has he declared himself; that is not a question to character. The difference between evidence to character, and this species of evidence, is this—as to character, what character has this person, and we have bcen very properly restrained ; Iconfess I have been irregular once or twice, and so has my friend, Mr. Gibbs, and your lordship has toid us of itin a very indulgent manner, for putting questions to character ina different way from what the practice is, You cannot, when asking to character, ask what has A. B.C. told you about this man’s character, no, but what is the general opinion concerning him. Character is the slow-spreading influence of opinion, arising from the deportment of a man in society ; as a man’s deportment, good or bad, necessarily produces one circle without another, and so extends itself till it unites in one gencral opinion; that general opinion is allowed to be given in evidence. But this case is totally foreign to that, as it is a declaration of the prisoner to an individual witness upon a particular occasion, and connected with the subjectjunder examiDation. 
ERSKINE 11274 I shall not trouble your lordship with many more cases, for if these are not sufficient, none can be. 
ERSKINE 11275 The next is the case of Francis Francia, who was indicted for high treason, in corresponding with the pretender. In his defence, Mr. Hungerford says to a witness, “ what do you know of the prisoner’s behaviour ?
ERSKINE 11277 In Fitzharris’s case, he asks a witness whether he thinks the act with which he is charged, was done with a treasonable intention—that is not objected to, though Jefferies conducted that cause. 
ERSKINE 11278 Then supposing these authorities to be out of the question, and supposing that these which Thave troubled your lordship with had not existed, but that I was obliged to do that which it is my privilege to do, to stand upon the principles of the criminal law of Enza, which are full well known to your lordshiy, without being obliged to look up to othe sources, Your lordships all of you have long presided in courts of justice, and I am sm those of your lordships particularly, vb preside in criminal courts of justice, having great expericnce, must think that when te nature of this case is considered, when its anomaly is attended to, when it is recollectel that although the statute of 25 Edward sx, certainly docs not make the overt-act charged upon the record treason, yet when the overt act is admitted to be charged upon the record, every thing which creates a probability to te contrary, to negative the intention, mustle received, provided it be a rational principle a evidence, provided it be of a sort that wha one looks round it, one sees nothing by wld justice may be surprised and endaugered; fa I should be extremely sorry to press in the most criminal case, however agitated or ear est I might be upon the subject, for sy thing which had not been indulged to others in a similar course of proceedings. I wish much as any subject of the country cao wish, that the law of the land should be admins tered tairly and impartially ; that one mz should have what another has had, but more, and no less; and I conceive that whes my friend, the attorney general, takes the into his consideration, that he will think the cases I have cited, and the principle on whieh they are grounded, entitle me to have this evidence almitied, I would not have troubled your lordships with the cases, but I considered it as a matter of importance, not only ssi concerned the administration of justice 10 ge neral, but as it concerns the case of the ptr soner before you. 
GIBBS 11279 I submit to your ar og that this evidence is admissible. My leame friend has exhausted all the law that an out of the ‘case, and therefore it will not be necessary for me to trouble your lordsbups upon that part of the case; but it seems to me upon a plain principle in a case of sort, the declaration of the prisoner explaizing the overt-act, the tendency of which over act is the point for the jury to determine toust be admissible evidence. 
GIBBS 11280 Your lordships will find it is laid down 0 lord Hale—I believe it is laid down io muy cases, that an overt-act, indifferent is 4 nature, may yet be explained to be an ovettact committed, tending to the purpose cor ceived by the prisoner of destroying the king; for instance, theact ch upon Crobagal, the coming into England was in itself a0 different act, which became an overt-act compassing the king's death, because te intent of bis coming into England was & plained by words spoken elsewhere; ands many other cases I take it that words spoken by a man, not only at the time of the overt act, but before that time, are admissible, for tere is no limitation of time within which words spoken by a prisoner may not be given in eidence to explain the nature of an overt act, charged to be an overt act in the prosecution of his design of compassing the king's death 
GIBBS 11281 Now if the crown may give evidence of the whole of a man's life, for the purpse of explaining an indifferent act, and giving it a crimial complexion, surely it follows, upon the principle of administering equal justice, that whatever he has said upon the same subject, tending to prove a differnt intention, an innocent intention, it should be copetent to him to give in evidence. I take the distinction to be this: if that which is charged upon a man to be an act, if it be a thing done, you cannot in any case give in evidence that the prisoner has denied that he did the thing. The crown in that case may give evidence, that the prisoner did at any time admit that he committed the act, that he did the thing, the prisoner cannot answer that, by showing that at another time he said he had not done it, though you may ask whether he had not held some other conversation which explained 
GIBBS 11282 ; the tendency of that. We have it not in question now, whether he did commit the overt-act stated in theindictment, but whether 
GIBBS 11283 In committing the act, he had, or not, the original design 
GIBBS 11285 The design is a part of the overt-act in this way—the overt-act of comthe calling together a convention for the purpose of deposing the king; it states first the treason ; the treason laid is that he compassed the king’s death, and then the overt-act is laid thus—that he, with others, for the purpose of accomplishing the treason, did conspire with others to call this convention, in order that this convention might depose the king. 
GIBBS 11286 The distinction that I was taking is this— I know that we have before the jury both the fact and the design as to deposing the king; namely, the fact of consenting to hold a convention, and the design with which it was consented to be held; but we are now about to show what the design was, to exculpate the prisoner trom any criminal intention. I admit we could not go into evidence of what the prisoner had said at any time of his life, for the purpose of showing he had not consented to hoid this convention, because that is a fact ; butIsubmit with great deference to your lordship, that in order to show that that convention was consented to be held, not with the design which the crown imputes, but with an mrocent design, we may go into evidence of what the prisoner has at other times declared, inasmuch as the crown has gone into ull that which the prisoner at apy part of his life has declared touching this fact; and not only that, butinto evidence of what any member in the London Corresponding Society, any member of the Constitutional Society, or an member of any societies corresponding with those societies have said. As the crown is permitted to go into evidence of what any one of those people have said, in order to prove that the ultimate design was to depose the king, we only ask in answer to that, that we may be permitted to go into declarations of the prisoner of that which can be only found in his own mind; not that he did not do the act imputed to him, but that the design with which he did that act, was different from that which the crown imputes. I was going to put a case which I had forgot in the course of the argument, which appears to me not unlike this, and which was suggested by your lordship’s saying that the design of deposing the king is a part of the overt act—the case of murder; suppose it plainly proved that the prisoner did kill the deceased, and the question is whether it is murder or manslaughter, that will turn upon the intent. I take it in that case it is the constant, uniform practice to receive evidence ef the declarations of the prisoner of his -will and friendship to the deceased. —Now, why are these declarations received ; Iam sure I have heard, in innumerable instances, evidence given of declarations of prisoners of good-will to the deceased, when they have admitted they gave the fatal blow, and when the question is, what is the quality of the act committed, whether murder or manslaughter ; and the rule, I take it, is not confined to declarations immediately upon committing the act, but to declarations at former times. Why are these declarations received; the act of giving the blow is admitted. So here the calling a convention is admitted, the declarations are received for this purpose, to show what the mind of the man was, what his intent must have been, whether he gave the blow with a view to produce death or not. Then with what view do we offer this evidence? to show his design, whether it was the design the attorney general imputes, or an innocent one. We offer this evidence in order to show that the object of this convention was different from that which the attorney general states, in the same way as the evidence of good-will to the deceased is admitted, in a case where the question is, whether the crime is murder or manslaughter. 
ERSKINE 11296 I said no sermon could be high treason, without being in pursuance of some plan. 
ERSKINE 11298 I appeal to every body round me, and the whole public that I did
ERSKINE 11311 I hope you will not be offended at me for this interruption whetmay amend your last observation : They all of them taken from the State Trials, asd they are all spon original examinations 
ERSKINE 11318 I tell you it was not. 
ERSKINE 11320 I see you do not. 
ERSKINE 11352 Just so, that is my question; only that I may not get into another debate,Ibeg your lordship will hear me a few words. 
ERSKINE 11353 rd Chief Justice Eyre
ERSKINE 11355 In the first place I cannot help lamenting that I have been throughout this whole business very considerably misunderstood. IfI had no other reason for it,— but I have another reason which I will show presently,—but if 1 had no other reason, ina place so very public as this, itis fit that I should say a few words to the Court. 
ERSKINE 11356 I agree with Mr. Solicitor General that very frequently an improper odium falls upon counsel; no man can cast his eye upon the State Trials without seeing that an improper odium has fallen upon counsel conducting causes for the crown, in consequence of that humanity which has ever been the characteristic of the English nation, Thinking so, I did that which, perhaps, would have been better hereafter: I went out of my way, and notwithstanding my weak state of health, spoke at some length, and with some anxicty, lest any man should suppose for a moment that I meant to make any such insinuation against any of the gentlemen at the bar— what return I have met with I leave to others who have heard it, to judge, without making any observartion upon it, because it is not for your lordship to redress it. 
ERSKINE 11357 With regard to Mr. Solicitor General, thus much I have a right to say, and I am bound for myself to say it, I think that any man who improperly gives offence to another, very much forgets the character that ought to beJong to him ; and if I had given any just offence to Mr. Solicitor General, I should have been the first man without any complaint from him to have given hint satisfaction for it; but on the contrary, I have a right to complain of him, for when he had asserted (I took it for granted, from not having heard what I said) that all the cases I cited were upon cross-examination, I thought it would be unmanly in me afterwards to take advantage of that remarkin my reply; therefore, in order to enable the gentleman to make such observation upon the cases I cited as would belong to them, when he stated that they were upon cross-examinations, out of a proper courtesy, and from that which belonged to the dignity of the bar, I told him that they were on original examinations, and I should have thought that would have satisfied Mr. Solicitor General that they were so; for I stated in the course of what I said, that I hadpersonally collected them, and that they were bn original examinations, After that Mr. Solicitor General goes on, and with great emphasis says, I shall still think that they vere on cross-cxamination ; I wrote it down, and every gentleman in court heard it; upon which I said I aver again that they were on original examination: “ then, he said, ah do not understand them ; to which I sai “ I see you do not. Why I would say that to any man that ever existed, here, or any where —if a mantells me that what I aver is not so, I would say to that man what I will not say here. So much for that. 
ERSKINE 11358 The attorney general says that the over-rill‘ing Providence of God superintends alike the Tich and the poor in this country, as indeed it does over the whole world, and he seemed to be offended, after 1 had read from the State Trials, what had been allowed in some illustrious cases to noblemen, and some of the first men in the kingdom, that I should speak, feeling as I must feel, if I were not worse than any man whose name is to be found in the State Trials, fecling someting for the prisoner; an allowance ought to be made for counsel for prisoners, as well as for prisoners themselves; that I should make mention of this poor shoe-maker; buthad 1 not excluded every idca of offence to the attorney 
ERSKINE 11359 neral? Could he think, with the particular Kindness with which 1 have gone out of the way to speak of him in the whole’of the cause, , 
ERSKINE 11360 ‘could any man think that I meant to bring’ back again that odium upon the counsel for. the crown which I had sought zealously to, ‘take off, and which I thought it my duty to} 
ERSKINE 11361 do out of respect'to the attorhey-zeneral? but told ‘ne, that ydir society it furnishes me with tHis obdervation, whi if there was, what I think there if tu, Fg the prisoner, it might serve hith; t shows us how little dependetice is to be hid upon words, and how little it is evidence k high treason what men who are warn wil say, because we who were thus ier be who might be imagined to be really disa! to ohe another, are persons who Iive in social life together, on terms of affection and regard; and, therefore, I am glad this happens, be cause persons may see how little we ought ’ depend upon what may be said by Mr. Yorke, or any other man, when found heated att tavern, or at an alehouse. This question refers to 4 period previow t the time of holding the convention, beh 
ERSKINE 11362 “the convention was thought of, in order show clearly that this person’s opinion, sd that his object in being a member of the Co. responding Society, and the secretary, was bring about the duke of Richmond’s object, and by the duke of Richmond’s means. If the Court will put that question I have done. 
ERSKINE 11364 I am sure the jury will er cuse it; I meant to set myself right st us bar: this is a very public place. 
ERSKINE 11365  Did you before the time of this convention being held, which is imputed to Mr. Hardy, ever hear from him what his objects were— whether he has at all mixed hiniselt in that business
ERSKINE 11367 y Was this said in the confiderice of priratt regard, or in public company, where it might be said ostentatiously 
ERSKINE 11369 From all that you have seen of him, wint is his character for sincerity and truth? have every reason to believe him to be s vey sincere, siniple, honest man. 
ERSKINE 11372 Are these the minutes of the Scotch Borough Convention ‘(Showing a pathphlet td the witness.]—They are. 
ERSKINE 11373  Were you a delegate td this convention
ERSKINE 11376 I am going to prove the first convention in Scotland, because your lord- ship recollects the idea of a British Conven- tion came originally by proposition from Scotand ; it was not set on foot by either of the two societies in England. 
ERSKINE 11378 We conceive that upon the evidence it is so, but we will suppose for the present that it was not, still it was 4 convention which was held, ‘not in England, but in Scotland, and the principal persons assembled in it were of that country, though upon general invitation detegates were sent from England to it. Now it becomes material in the consideration of this evidence to tnake this observation—the overt act charges this to be a convention held for the purpose of subverting the rule, order, and government of the country. I seems not to have beensufficiently attended to lately that that is theovert act, for in the course of the debate that is just finished, it looked as if it was assumedthat the overt-act was the holding a convention, but the overt-act is not for holding a convention, for any two or three people that get together may be a convention; but it isa: convention held for & ‘particular purpose, in pursuance of another purpose, which the ihdictment says ‘was, to subvert the govern-: meht
GIBBS 11380 We offer this as evidence of the fact, that there did exist meetings m Scotland which had the name of a convention of delegates, at the time Mr. Erskine has stated. 
ERSKINE 11384 I submit to the judgment of the Court whenever I hear it. 
GIBBS 11385  Where do you live 
GIBBS 11387 Are you a member of the society there
GIBBS 11389 What are the objects of that society 
GIBBS 11391 Had you any view with respect to the other branches of the legislature, either to the King, or the Lords 
GIBBS 11393 Had you, or had any of the members of your society, to your knowledge, any intent to bring about that reform by force 
ERSKINE 11397 I will state to your lordship that I also meant to offer another piece of evidence, in order that I may receive the judgment of the Court upon its admissibility shall present to the Court all that we conceive it our duty to present, leaving it to your lordship to decide upon the admissibility, which 1s matter of law. I was instructed to offer to your lordship evidence of associations in the year 1780 for similar purposes, followed up by resolutions extremely similar to many of those which have occupied much of the attention and consideration of the Court. I -will net take up your lordship’s time with stating at length the principle upon which 1 offer it, because I have so often stated it already; namely, that when we are trying the intention of the persons who held those assosciations, that it might be seen whether they were not following the example, no matter whether legally or illegally, of great men in their own country, instead of being supposed to be copying persons in another country, from whom they were totally distinct. 
ERSKINE 11399 That cannot be, for there is no such thing as high treason in point of law, unless the party has in his mind an intent to compass the king’s death. 
ERSKINE 11401 It would be very difficult, I -confess, to persuade any body that almost all the great persons in this country have been in a course of committing high treason. 
ERSKINE 11404 Mr. Sheridan, as your lorship very well knows, is amember of the Hous of Commons, I will call him to prove, that be was about to bring before the House an inquiry into any conspiracy that there might beagains the government upon this subject now under examination; that he saw the prisoner at the bar, and had communication with him long, long before the papers in his custody were seized, which are now turned inte evidence against him, as papers found clandestinely in his custody as a criminal. I call Mr. She ridan to prove, if the fact be so, that Mr. Hardy offered to come forward to give al assistance, to lay every thing voluntarily be fore the parliament in examination of this matter, which has since been made the sub ject of inquiry in a court of criminal justice. I produce this evidence because it affordss presumption of his innocence, 
ERSKINE 11405  Do you know the prisoner at the bar
ERSKINE 11407 When was that
ERSKINE 11409 Upon what occasion was it that you saw him 
ERSKINE 11411 At that time was the convention which had been assembled in Scotland sitting, had it been dispersed 
ERSKINE 11413 Upon what occasion did you send for Mr. Hardy, or did he wait upon you
ERSKINE 11419 What his object was upon it 
ERSKINE 11421 I should not have presumed to have aked Mr. Stuart the question, What was the object of the society? without your lordship’s permission, but he said that Mr. Hardy declared his own object, and that of the society to be, a parliamentary reform upon the duke of Richmond's plan. 
ERSKINE 11423 What did he declare the object of the society to be
ERSKINE 11425 Will you be so good as state what assistance he offered you 
ERSKINE 11427 Did he know at this time that you had intended making a motion in the House of Commons upon the subject 
ERSKINE 11429 Whether in stating the pursuit which parliament had in view, he offered you any farther assistance that might eventually be necessary in the investigation of all that in fact had been done
ERSKINE 11431 I observe you have been pet durin; most of these proceedings; I wish to as whether he fisted you a sight of those apers which have been seized, and you have Foerd read here in evidence
ERSKINE 11433 Was that in consequence of any demand of yours, peremptorily as a member of parliament, or a magistrate, or was it a voluntary offer on his part, considering you as a private member of parliament
ERSKINE 11435 Richard Brindsley Sheridan, esq. cross-ex amined by Mr. Attorney General. 
ERSKINE 11436 I understand that this was in the beginning of the year 1793
ERSKINE 11438 Did I understand you right, that you showed him some book 
ERSKINE 11440 He did not offer to show you a book that was a Journal of their proceedings 
ERSKINE 11442 Do you take upon yourself to say that he offered to show you books, or a book, or any Journal 
ERSKINE 11444 T understood you that he meant to give you all the written information that in the beginning of the year 1798 he could give; but I have an important reason for desiring that he mey not be prejudiced by your recollection, when yau state the ward Jaurnal or Book.— Did he offer to give you the correspondence and a Journal or Book 
ERSKINE 11446 No Book or Journal of the Corresponding Society has been produced; I svish, therefore, to know whether yqu mean -yoursclfto say that he did mention ‘the word’ J wrnal, or the word :Book, because I wish if yaur recollection is not accurate to, the ward Journal ar Book, hat that expression may be dropped, jnasmuch as that a bate may give rise to an observation 
ERSKINE 11460  Do you know the prisaner at the bar
ERSKINE 11462 Upon what occasiqn was jt that yu ay him
ERSKINE 11464 Then was that
ERSKINE 11466 e .was sent tome as secretaxy of that sooty to which he belongs, fo desire thatIwut present a petition from them to parliament upon the subject of a reform ,in pasli and he desired that I would permit bim asl some athers, who were to act as delegates, oF who. were deputed from, the society to me, & come:to my hause, which, they did. Idesre! to see the petition of course before I preseo it;.they brought the petition yhe was, I thi. rather the spokesman; there were four them, Mr. Margarot was one, and there wert others whose names I do not believe I eet knew. ,lread the petition; .I said as to the form of the petition, it seems perfedly spectful to. the House of Commons, and thinking it the right of the subject, upon all occasions, to petition the House of Commons, or any other branch of the legislature, I had no objection to deliver their petition, but then I told them I had an objection to the prayer of the petition, and I advised them that I must at the same time that I delivered it, declare a utterly adverse to the prayer of it, which was that the redress for the grievances of which they complained, in the body of the petition, should be by granting to the people Of this country what they called universal sentation according to the plan laid down ! by the duke of Richmond. i "That the reform they wanted was according ! toa plan which youdid not approve
ERSKINE 11468 Having offered to you a petition which you Beige perfectly legal, tut the prayer of i which for universal suttrage did not agree 
ERSKINE 11469 ; with your private opinion; what was Slr. 
ERSKINE 11470 Hardy's answer to that
ERSKINE 11472 ; member, for I took notice of it in speaking of this matter, that Mr. Hardy seemed a most 
ERSKINE 11473 ; Yemarkably reasonable, quiet man; when Speaking of this matter it struck me so both then, and when I saw bim in his sbop. Upon 
ERSKINE 11474 Stating these objections, Mr. Margarot and the other two were very ready, and their readiness surprised me, in maintaining the arguments that might be urged on the part of universal representation. I expressed my surprise that men of their rank in life should have the command of such arguments, they said it was not surprising, for they only follows ed the opinions of the duke of Richmond, and they said whatever my opinion might be, Lcould hardly make it better. Upon my making this difficulty to present their petition, and stating that, instrict parliamentary propriety, a petition to the House ought to leave the remedy, whatever it might be, in general terms to the wisdom of the House; and that even if I had approved their idea of universal representation, I should have recommended them to leave the prayer of their petition open ina general way; they said that for their part, I felievs Mr. Hardy took it upon himself when he said this, and I took notice of the quietness, moderation, and simpticity of the man, as well as bis good sense; he said in return to that, that he was sorry they had not known my vbjection sooner, or to that effect. [have had occasion to recite the circumstances now stated tu the Court upon another occasion, which makes me more accurate concerning them; some time ago when I was called upon to mention them at .a meeting of our own society; I mention that only to account for being so accurate, they said they were sorry they had not known my objections sooner, that it would have been indifferent to them whether they should have stated the prayer as they had done, or lett it open; but that now they could not alter it, because the petition wasalready signed by a great number, I believe nine thousand ; that it must be presented that day, the 6th of May, because on that day Mr. Grey had given notice of his motion concerning a reform of parliament, and it was indispensably necessary it should be presented that day, that made it impossible they could alter the prayer of the petition, being signed by great numbers. I said very well, they knew my thoughts upon the subject, and if they were content that I should present their petition, making that declaration concerning the prayer of it, I was ready to do it; accordingly I did so, and stated to the House my objection to it, 
ERSKINE 11475 Had it not been that the forms of the House would not admit of the time, did there appear a readiness and willingness to have made it conformable to your recommendation
ERSKINE 11510 The reading this letter, which I did not call for, gives me an opportunity of asking you, whether you would have answered that letter in the manner you have done, if you had the smallest reason in the world to belicve that these people were pursuing their object by such means as are charged ! to them here this day
ERSKINE 11512 The evidence on the part of the crown has been divided into two branches first to prove by the language and writings of those who have been members of different societies, what their objects were. Secondly, to see how far the prisoner could be legally involved in these objects. In consequence of that, many writings and declarations of Skirving and others, who were delegates to the convention at Edinburgh, have been given in evidence; what I propose to prove to your lordships is, that lord Lauderdale, a peer of the realm, as your lordship knows, had a letter written to him, requesting him to accept the office of delegate in the British Convention for one of the societies comprehended in the scope of this conspiracy. It would, therefore, be very unreasonable to suppose that their intention was to destroy the honours of the nobleman to whom this letter was addressed. If your lordships think it evidence I will offer it. Itis dated the 26th of October, just before the British Convention was held. 
ERSKINE 11513  I wish your lordship to look at that letter . Did you receive it
ERSKINE 11515 Did your lordship know at that time that the British Convention, as it was called, was about to be assembled
ERSKINE 11517 I understand your lordship declined being a delegate
ERSKINE 11519 Was your lordship at that time in Scotland
ERSKINE 11521 Were you informed at that time that the different socicties in England, and also the difJerent societies in Scotland, were sending delegates to this society Yes, I was, 
ERSKINE 11522 Did you give any answer to that letter? Yes; I wrote an answer. 
ERSKINE 11523 I cannot ask whit the answer was.—Did you see the persons who brought the letter 
ERSKINE 11525 Is he a man of character
ERSKINE 11527 From any thing you saw at the time these applications were made, had you any reason to believe or suspect that the members of this convention were callcd together to assume the power of government
ERSKINE 11529 Was there any thing that led you to believe that that was to be accomplished by force and violence, overpowering and overturning the different branches of our government
ERSKINE 11531 I put it in the most unqualified way
ERSKINE 11537 Will you give me leave to ask my lord Lauderdale what change of opinion these letters have made upon him? 
ERSKINE 11539 It is for the jury both ways,because your question infers, that if his lord ship had seen these letters, his opinion would have been the other way. 
ERSKINE 11540 “ My lord ; Permit me, in name of man’ 
ERSKINE 11541 of the members of the society of the Friends of the People in Portsburgh, to have the honour of proposing your lordship as a deleneral convention. 
ERSKINE 11542 te to the ensuing in this nowing of your lordship’s bein country, we would be inexcusable to our fellow-citizens, if we did not solicit this favour from a man to whom they look up with affection and confidence —My lord, I have the honour to be, your lordship’s most obedient, and most humble servant, 
ERSKINE 11543 Wruitram Morratt, secretary. “Horn Wynd, Edin. 26th Oct. 1793. 
ERSKINE 11544 My lords, I have now closed the defence of Mr. Hardy. 
GIBBS 11558 May it please your Lordships; Gentlemen of the jury; I need not state tot you the anxiety that I must necessarily feeltreason; and you are bound to inquire of upon this occasion, oppressed by the weightnothing that is not there charged. ofa cause under which the mighty abilities ofmy learned friend could hardly support him. 1 But, gentlemen, if Ican, I will do my duty to that miserable man at the bars if my strength 1! enables me to go through the defence which 1 I bave undertaken, I will defend him; it is 1 not a wish to spare my own strength, it is nota wish to spare my own health which hasoverpowered me, but it is because I have felt this cause too great for me; I have felt myself incapable of comprehending, in my mind, the vast mass of evidence which the crown has ; produced against this man. No time which the indulgence of the Court has allowed me, 1 Do industry of my own (in which, I assure you, I have not failed) has enabled me so to conceive, in my mind, this vast cause, as to State it intelligibly to you; for so, and so only does the interest of the prisoner, and public Justice, require that it should be stated. Gentlemen, you will remember that, in the outset, it took the attorney gencral nine hours Merely to open this case; a length of speech unheard of; the annals of this kingdom do Rot afford an instance of a prosecution founded en so many complicated facts, drawn out of such a tangled web, that less than a speech of nine hours could not render it intelligible to the jury, nor explain to them by what mode of reasoning it was meant to bring the imputed charge home to the prisoner. 
GIBBS 11559 To suppose that the attorney general has stated his case at greater length, or burthened it with more evidence than in his judgment was necessary, would be casting an unworthy reflection on him. His known character renders it impossible. ‘The prosecution itself must be thought to have required for its support this mass of evidence, which it is our duty, as counsel for the prisoner, to observe upon, but impossible, in the time allowed us, to understand. ‘This it is that weighs us down. —Remember the situation in which my jearned friend, Mr. Erskine was; you saw how even he was oppressed by it; it was not possible for human ability, and I feel it so, because it was not possible for his standing up to repel a charge drawn by such subtle reasoning, out of such a complication of facts ; it was not possible for the ability of man so to coraprehend and embrace, in his mind, those facts, as to enable him to lay before you a fair defence for the prisoner. 
GIBBS 11560 Gentlemen, in order to make what I have to address to you upon this subject intelligible, it is necessary that I should first state to you what I conceive the law of the subject to be, and what questions that law submits to your consideration in the present case. This is to be looked for—First, m the indictment; next, in the statute upon Which the indictment is founded. 1 say it is to be looked for in the indictment, because it is necessary that the indictment should charge the prisoner with some fact or facts, which, in law, amount to 
GIBBS 11561 The charge against the prisoner is, that he has compassed the king’s death, and that, for the purpose of carrying that design, entertained against the king’s life, into execution, he has done certain acts stated in the indictment. 
GIBBS 11562 The treason charged is, that he compassed the king’s death; the means by which he is stated to have endeavoured to effect this purpose, are, 
GIBBS 11563 First, hat he, with others, met, and conspired to. procure a convention and meeting, with intent, and in order that the persons to be assembled at such convention and Meeting, should and might, wickedly and traitorously, without, and in defiance of the authority, and against the will of the parliament of this kingdom, subvert and alter, and cause to be subverted and altered, the legislature, rule, and government, now duly and happily established in this kingdom, and depose, and cause to be deposed, our said lord the king
GIBBS 11565 This indictment is founded upon the statute of Edward the third, upon which my learned friend argued very ably and elaborately. You observe that, before this statute, different opinions had been entertained as to what was, and what was not treason; and men had been drawn into the penalties of treason, without suspecting that they had incur them. 
GIBBS 11566 The statute recites, ‘ that divers opinions had been entertained in what case treasqn shall be said, and in what not; and therefore the king, at the request of the Lurds, and of the Commons, makes a declaration of what shall be treason; that is to say, when a man doth compass or imagine the death of our lord the king, or our lady his queen, or of their eldest son and heir, and thereof be provably attainted of open deed by the people at of their condition, it is to be understood t in that case it ought to be judged treason, that is, high treason. 
GIBBS 11567 Then the statute goes on with a declaration that nothing but that, which is precisely expressed and specified in the statute, shall be treason : “ And because that many other like cases of treason may happen in time to come, which a man cannot think nor declare at this present time, it is accorded, that if any other case, supposed treason, which is not above specified, doth happen before any justices, the justices shall tarry, without any going to judgment of the treason, till the cause be shuwed and declared before the king and his parliament, whether it ought to be judged treason or other felony. 
GIBBS 11568 You have then the indictment stating these points, which yuu are to consider, whether ! the prisoner compassed the king’s death, and ! whether he committed these acts with an intent immediately to depose the king, ie ne main charge is, that he compassed the king’s death. ‘Ihis is the only treason, presented by the indictment, to your inquiry; and this isthe ila have been legally stated in the indictment, since the statute of the 25th of Edward Srd; if this indictment hadvaried from the statute in charging any thing dues not make so, it would be erroneous: if former indictments, from the time of passing the statute to the present, had varied from it, without being noticed, that would not alter the law ultimately to accomplish his death. 
GIBBS 11569 only form in which it cou as treason which the statute upon the subject, because in cases arisin; upon a statute, no established form of legal proceedings can control the statute, but must e corrected by it. 
GIBBS 11570 In this case, however, the form of the indictment and the statute go hand in hand; it appears frum each that nothing shall be treason (nothing, at least, necessary to be considered upon the present occasion), except the compassing the king’s death. You will observe the statute says likewise, that the party must be “ provably attainted of open deed by the people of his condition. Now, upon this statute, lord Coke, who was one of the most learned lawycrs that has ever lived, has commented, and I shall take the liberty shortly of stating his comment, at least that particular part of it, because that will point out to you how careful the law is, and how careful all writers upon the law are, to guard judges and juries against ever extending this statute; it points out the method you ought to use in investigating the charge brought against the prisoner, and therefore I trust it will not be thought useless if I state it to you. 
GIBBS 11571 The treason charged is, you see, a compassin the king’s death; there must be in the min king’s death, but that must be proved to a jury by his acts, and on that part of the su tute in which the legislature says, “ that thr parly shall be provably attainted of ojeo deed by the people of their conditiun, lod Coke has thus commented. gentlemen, where your recollection goes to the argumett of Mr. Erskine, which passed some time ago. Tam sure you will regret that I should repat it, but I will only endeavour to bring bac those things which may have escaped you. Lord Coke says, (3 inst. 12.) “ In ths branch four things are to be observed. Fir, this word provably, that is, upon direct, mnifest proof, not upon conjectural presump tions, or inferences, or strains of wit, tut upon good and sufficient proof; and heria the adverb (provablement) provably hth: great force, and significth a direct and pho proof, which word the King, the Lords ai Commons in parliament did use, for that the offence was so heinous, and was so hesviy and so severely punished, as none other tte like, and therefore the offender must praca be attainted, which. words are as forcibieas upon direct and manifest proof. Note, the word is not probably, for then commune crgvmentum might have served, but the word is procably be attainted. ; This you see, gentlemen, is an exhortation to you who are to find whether the prisuner or is not guilty; that you do not find bin guilty, without plain, direct, and manic! proof—this is the proof which the legislate requires for the purpose of fixing this noe upon the prisoner; this is the proof which a course you, who are the jury to try his quit innocence, must be satisfied has been zea in the cause, before you can find him gulls. Gentlemen, I will trouble you tarther. merely with a statement of the way in whica judges who have had to try causes upva ths statute, have laid down the law to the Juv. I shall then have stated to you the indictuert —the statute upon which it is founded, the construction of one of the most learned lsyers who ever lived upon that statute, andtie acting of one of the most learned judges a has ever adorned the bench (I speak of chief justice Pemberton) when he sat on bt trial of lord Russell, who was charged with aa offence of the same sort as that with whi! 
GIBBS 11572 alluded to in court, and not from the ba, bet from the bench. I have heard the sm rible treason and traitorous compassings, imaginations, and purposes aforesaid, he, the said William Russell, together with other false traitors, maliciously, traitorously, and advi-sedly between themselves, and with divers other traitors to the jurors unknown, did meet tovether, consult, agree, and conclude insurrection and rebellion against our sovereign lord the king within this kingdom of England, to move and stir up, and the guards fur the preservation of the person of our said Lord the king to seize and destroy, against the duty of his allegiance. So you see the charge in that indictment was, that lord Russell had compassed the king’s death, and to effect that treason, had conspired to raise insurrection and rebellion against the king, and to seize the ds appointed for the preservation of the king’s person. The evidence given in that case went certainly to show, if it went to show any thing, that lord Russell had conspired to raise insurrection and rebellion in the kingdom, and to seize the king’s guards, and yet lord chief justice Pemberton in summing up (Istate this to show what is the matter for you to inquire into in this case) does not tell the jury that the point for them to consider is, whether the prisoner had conspired to raise insurrection and rebellion against the person of the king ; and if they found that, they must find the prisoner guilty; but he tells them this— “now the question before you will be, whether upon this whole matter you do believe —not that lord Russell had raised insurrection and rebellion against the king, but “ whether you do believe my lord Russell had any design upon the king’s life, to destroy the king, or take away his life ;"—that is the charge which my lord chief justice Pemberton gives to the jury who tried lord Russell, and no man ever complained that the trial of lord Russell was not sufficiently severe— that (he says) is the material part here, itis used and given you by the king’s counsel as an evidence of this, that he did conspire to raise an insurrection, and to cause a rising of the people to make as it were, a rebellion within the nation, and to surprise the king's guards, which, say they, can have no other end but to seize and destroy the king. So that lord chief justice Pemberton puts it to the jury, that though they believed these facts, yet from these facts they were to collect whether the prisoner had, or had not, a design upon the king's life, for if he had not, they could not find him guilty; if that had not been his opinion of the law upon this subject, he would not have put it to them to say whether lord Russell by this means meant to accomplish the king's death, but would have put it—do you believe he conspired to raise an insurrection and rebellion against the person of the king? if you believe that, you believe enough ; he does not say that—says they put this to vou as an evidence that he meant to seize and destroy the kin; and he goes on to say—“ it is a great evidence 
GIBBS 11574 Gentlemen, I should tell you that either on that same morning, or the day before, some other prisoners had been tried for being accomplices in the Rye-house plot, and a part of that plot was not only to raise an insurrection against the king, but to seize his person, and murder him; therefore lord chief justice Pemberton says—“ you have not evidence in this case, as there was in the other matter that was tried in the morning: or yesterday, against the conspirators to kill the king at the Rye. There was a direct evidence of a consult to kill the king; that is not given you in this case; this 1s an act of contriving a rebellion, and an insurrection within the kingdom, to seize his guards, which is urged as an evidence, and surely is in itself an evidence to seize and destroy the king. So that lord chief justice Pemberton puts it to the jury that these facts are strong evidence of that which they are to inquire into, namely, a compassing the king’s death, but he puts it to them as the evidence, and distinguishes the case from the cases in the morning, where the design was, to seize and destroy the king. Where is the need of that distinction, if con as is now contended by the counsel for the crown, conclusively and directly treason in itself? He goes on to say, “ upon this whole matter this is left to you; if you believe the prisoner at the bar to have conspired the death of the king, and in order to that to have had those consults that those witnesses speak of, then you must find him guilty of this treason that is laid to his charge,—that is, if you find that he conspired the death of the king ; but unless you draw that conclusion from the other evidence in the cause, you cannot find him guilty; this is lord chief justice Pemberton’s summing up to the jury; and yet he is complained of by the friends of lord Russell, as having dealt too hardly with him ; therefore I think it cannot be imputed to him that he did this in any favour to the prisoner—he states the point for the jury to be, whether they think that the prisuner conspired to put the king to death. J admit that under many circumstances, a jury ought to draw that con they will draw that conclusion, or not. I think upon much consideration of the question, not only that the existence of the overt-act is for the jury, but that it is also for them to find whether the overt-act was committed in the prosecution of that design upon the king’s life, which must be stated in the indictment; not only does this appear to be the opinion of lord chief justice Pemberton, but of sir George Treby, who was then recorder of London, and who afterwards was lord chief justice of the Common Pleas. Lord Russell was found guilty—the jury did find from the facts laid before them, from his conspiring to raise an insurrection against theperson ef the king, and more than that from is design to scize those very guards that are appointed for the protection of the king’s erson, that he did conspire the death of the ing, and I cannot say it was an unreasonable conclusion. You shall hear whether this is an inaccurate expression of lord chief justice Pemberton’s, or whether it was generally considered then as the law. Lord Russell afterwards, when he was brought up for judgment, desires to have the indictment read to him, When he hears the charge against him of compassing and conspiring the king’s death he starts—he says, “ hold, I thought I had not been charged in the indictment of compassing and conspiring the death of the king. The attorney general says, “ yes, my lord, you are. Then he says to the recorder— ‘T appeal to you and the Court, even if all the witnesses have sworn be true, whether I am guilty within the statute of Edward 3d, there aving been an evidence of a conspiracy to levy war, but no evidence of an intention to kill the king; and therefore I think truly jndgment ought not to pass upon me for conspiring the death of the king, of which there was no proof by any one witness. That is only lord Russell’s argument—how is he answered by sir George Treby ? he does not say, what you state to have been sworn to by some of the witnesses is treason, but he says— that was an exception proper (and as I think you did make it) before the verdict, whether the evidence does amount to prove the charge; that is proper to be observed to the jury ;’—Sir George Treby then agrees with the chief justice, that it was for the jury to determine whether the evidence of conspiring to raise an insurrection and rebellion in the kingdom, and to seize the king's guard, does or does not prove a compassing of the king’s death; he admits that it is not treason in law, but it may be evidence of compassing the king's death, if the jury think proper to drawthat conclusion. He goes on—“ for if the evidence comes short of the indictment, they cannot find it to bea true charge, but when the jury has found it, their verdict does pass for the truth, we are bound by the verdict as well as your lordship. We are to go by what the jury have found, not by the eidence that was laid before them. 
GIBBS 11575 So, you see, itis plain, in this case fror the direction given by lord chief justice Peaberton, in summing up; and from the tex pitulation of that summing up, if I may soa! It, by sir George Treby, when lord Ruse: was brought up for judgment, that the po: for the jury is, whether the overt act, lad & the subsequent part of the indictment, prove the treason laid in the furmer part of their dictment, namely, the compassing the king: death. I never will stand up to contend t: there are not many acts of this sort stated in my lord Russeil’s case, from which an hoes!jury ought always to find that the prisdid compass the king’s death. I think theewas in that case, supposing the fact tok proved that he meant to raise insurrection ad rebellion in the state inst the king. axthat he meant to seize t ards of the king, I think that was strong evidence to go to jury, that his attempt aimed at the kgs life, and I cannot blame thesa fer finding t verdict that they did; yet still it was wb them. 
GIBBS 11576 Gentlemen, having stated what I comer to be the law upon this subject, and ansfrom that what the points are for your con deration, I will state to you now the cha which has been attempted in evidence, 10 brought against the prisoner ; 1 have stated it before, but in order to render myself inte ligible, I will shortly repeat it—it is, “ tha he conspired to procure a convention, wld convention, when met, was to overtum tte government, to depose the king, and to pal him to death. To a certain point we st agreed—we agree that he did hold consult j tions for the purpose of calling a conve tion—the point upon which we differ ispurpose for which that convention was tobe called ; and it is for my learned friends lo are of counsel for the crown, before they abring this charge home upon the prisoneraprove one or other of these two things, eliethat a convention cannot be called for wy other but treasonable purposes, or to prt. in fact, that this convention was called & the purpose of procuring the deposition of Ueking, and thereby his death : they must pro one or other of these two things. Now trfirst it is impossible to prove—to assert thats convention, or meeting of delegates from dt ferent sets of people, cannot be called ther but for treasonable purposes, would absurd, and ne such thing can pass from tt mouth of either of my friends. You ae heard of many, many conventions that bvbeen called; there were two conventionScotland, they were not proved indeed, witnesses did speak of them, and thet ad when the jury has found it, their verdict doesity was never puesto pass for the truth—we are bound by the ver
GIBBS 11578 I allude to them merely as showing that conventions may be called for lawful purposes. 
GIBBS 11579 Then the next thing to be considered is, whether the attorney general has proved that this convention was called for that specific unlawful purpose which he has stated, namely, to depose the king (for that is the gist of the cause) and thereby to compass his death— they undertake to prove this; we, on the other hand, say, that the convention was meant to be called for lawful purposes; we say that the prisoner at the bar, and those with whom he acted, believed that corruption had found its way into the state, and was making large strides in it; that he believed this corruption was occasioned, encreased, and continued by the long duration of parliaments, and by the unequal representation of the people in the House of Commons; that if these defects could be reformed, all would be well ; he knew, and they knew, thata petition to parliament would not produce the end which they wished to procure, because matty of their petitions had been, I may almost say contumeliously, rejected ; they thought, therefore, that it lay upon them, as g citizens, to find some other means by which they might effect what they conceived to bea lawful purpose; and they believed that if the general opinion of the people was for this reform, and if that general opinion could be made known to parliament, that parliament, though it had rejected the separate petitions of individuals, would yet attend to the general opinion properly conveyed to them; they saw no other way of conveying this opinion to parliament, but by calling together a convention of delegates sent from different parts of the country, by the voice of which delegates they might first collect whether this was, or was not, the general wish of the people, and if it was so, that they might by the same voice communicate this general wish to parliament. This they professed, and there can be no doubt that this the language of their resolutions imports. 
GIBBS 11580 On the other hand, the gentlemen who are of counsel for the crown say that all this was mere pretext—you did not think that there was corruption in the state; you did not think that that corruption arose from the unequal representation of the people in the House of Commons, and the long duration of parliament; you did not think that this reform, which you speak of, would produce a remedy—you had other views, and we take upon ourselves to prove that you had them. Certainly it does lie upon them to prove these other purposes ; and as the language of our resolutions imports that our intentions were innocent, unless they can show from positive and direct proof, from that plain, direct, and manifest evidence which lord Coke says is necessary in all cases of treason, that the prisoner, and those with whom he was concerned, did endeavour to bring about a revolution in by means of this convention, it is impossible that you can find him guilty of the charge that is now brought against him. 
GIBBS 11581 Gentlemen, there are two parts of the proposition which, in point of fact, the counsel for the crown feel it necessary to make out. In the first place, they say we will prove there was a general plot in the kingdom for effecting this purpose, that is for effecting the deposition of the king. In the next place, we will prove that the prisoner, with others, was an actor in this plot, and is implicated in the crime in which they are all implicated. Now you will recollect that for the sake of making out that first part of their proposition, which brings no guilt to the mind of the prisoner— which shows no intention of his to bring about that which is imputed to the others ; they have not only called many members of all these societies, but have proved every thing that ever was done or declared by any member either of the Constitutional Society, the Corresponding Society, or any members of any other society that ever corresponded with either of these societies ; that they say is for the purpore of proving the general plot. This would not be evidence as against the prisoner individually, but this it is necessary for them to go through, in order to make out the first part of their proposition, that there did really exist a general plot in the kingdom, for the purpose of deposing the king, and afterwards they endeavour to show you that the prisoner was concerned in that plot; this you see does not touch the prisoner, without proot thathe was concerned in what they call the general plot. 
GIBBS 11582 Now, gentlemen, this certainly does lay us under considerable hardships. I told you before, and I am sure you will afterwards hear from his lordship that nothing of this species of evidence, which is not brought home personally to the prisoner, ought to affect him personally; that it goes only to prove the existence of a plot, and yet how difficult is it for us who stand as counsel for the prisoner ; how difficult for you who are the arbiters of his fate; how difficult for the Court, who yet will do it better than either of us can, to distingnish the separate parts of this evidence, to say what tends only to prove the general plot, and what to affect the prisoner personally ! 
GIBBS 11583 The difficulty upon us is insuperable, not from the nature of the thing, but from the extentof the evidence into which we were carried ; for I declare that, with all the diligence which I have been able to use, and with all the time which the indulgence of the Court has granted me, I feel it utterly impossible, in my own mind, to separate them, and, therefore, it is impossible for me to state where the line of distinction lies. If my learned friends, who conducted the prosecution, had first finished their gencral evidence, and had then gone to that which was to bring it home to the prisoner, we might to 3 certain degree have been able to distinguish the state, and hurl the king from his throneit, but as the case is they have jumbled alt and opinion of many people wiser than he (I would not have used these expressions if the noble duke had not left the courty—it does, I say, appear to me folly, but then when these opinions are thus promulgated, that which is folly may reasonably be supposed to find its way into the mind of a shoe-maker. 
GIBBS 11584 Another topic which was urged upon the prisoner strongly, in the opening, was, that French terms were continually used in the resolutions; and therefore it was supposed that Mr. Hardy and those with whom he acted, wished to introduce into this country, all that anarchy which had been produced in France, by those who use the same terms
GIBBS 11587 My argument upon that subject was couched in a word, I said, we offer this evidence to show that a convention kid held in Scotland, before the time we heldthis. 
GIBBS 11589 No; that is my reasoning upoe the subject. 
GIBBS 11591 We meant to show, that the term “ Convention, which they insist to be of French origin, is not so. gentlemen, I submit to you, that my argument upon this subject is a fair one, and a conclusive one; either the use of French terms is or is not material in this case, and is, or is not to be argued upon
GIBBS 11593 If we are to consider these papers, let us take them all; let that which makes for the prisoner be taken, as well as that which Makes against him; the counsel for the crown say that the prisoner had no intention to bring about annual parliaments and universal suffrage, that it is alla pretence. 
GIBBS 11594 Gentlemen, look at the papers which will be summed up by my lord, when the solicitor general has gone through his reply, and you will find them full of these declarations ; you will find the complaint is of the corruption of the present House of Commons; you will find that the cause of that complaint is always stated to be the partial representation of the people in that House ; you will find that the objects sought by the prisoner, and those with whom he acted, were annual parliaments and universal suffrage, folly I think, and I dare sey you think so,—but yet it is the expression 
GIBBS 11595  a i a ad because the effect of these two decisions would be this, that the counsel for the prosecution may argue against the prisoner, from certain facts, which the prisoner, though he knows them to be false, shall not be permitted to controvert. This cannot, surely be supported, and therefore all arguments arising from the use of French terms, must, as it appears to me be excluded from the cause. Another thing imputed to us is, that we approve the French Revolution
GIBBS 11597 You find, in many instances, they speak of the king, and the herelitars nobility of this country, as entitled to reverence and respect. —Was it so in France? Were the king and nobility of that country entitled to the reverence and respect of the subjects of France, as the king and nobility of this country are entitled to the reverence and respect of the people here
GIBBS 11599 But more than that, wishes of union with France had been expressed
GIBBS 11601 The remarks which have been made on the Address to the National Convention are open to the same answer. 
GIBBS 11602 Then the insertion of Roland and Barrere’s speeches is attempted to be fixed upon Mr. Hardy ; and mark how wide he stands from it; there is a resolution, at a meeting of the society, that certain speeches in the French language, from a French newspaper, should be inserted in their books, and they never are inserted. 
GIBBS 11603 Do you think, that that shoemaker understands French? Do you think, that that shoemaker ever read the Moniteur? Can you believe that, at the time when that passed, he could have any idea of what were the contents of these speeches? — Not that I admit, by any means, that, if the fact were proved upon him; if he were the person who made that motion, that it proves any thing in this cause. What does it amount to? That he wished to have communicated to the members of this society, what the reasons were upon which those who were desirous of bringing about that calamitous event in France, acted; if he thought those reasons were convincing; if he thought they ought to be followed up by an execution of the design; though I should differ from him most unquestionably, yet I am far from thinking and i am sure you will be far from thinking, that it is to be inferred from thence, that he compassed the death of his own king. What has the state of France to do with England? What were the grounds of accusation against the king of France? A constitution had been received in the country, of which the king was a part; the accusation against the king was, that he had violated that constitution; perhaps he was in the same situation there, in which James the second was here. 
GIBBS 11604 I do not say that the prisoner might not be misguided; I do not say that those by whom he was advised, or with whom he acted, might Not have misled him ; but even if he had read the speeches himself, if he had himself entered the resolutions on the book in English, 1 do insist that it does not furnish a presumption that he compassed the death of the king of England. The circumstances of that nation and this are widely different—Thank God ! the king of England lives in the hearts of his subjects; there is nv accusation against him that he has violated the constitution of this country; he has by his public and private virtues deserved and acquived the affections of his subjects; so I think, so you all think, and so the prisoner thinks. And it would be Monstrous cruelty to impute to him a design against the life of the king of England, hecause, under certain circumstances, he wished to have published to a society of people, the reasons upon which certain persons in France thought it right to bring their king to a calamitous end. 
GIBBS 11605 Itis said, that the prisoner, and those with whom he acted, must have intended by assembling this convention to act with force against the government, because, forsooth, they had resolved that they would no longer Petition parliament. Now, it seems to me, that that resolution naturally preceded the calling together such a convention as I have stated the prisoncr intended to call, and as I insist he might legally call. If the petitions of individuals had obtained from parliament that which it was their object to obtain by calling this convention, then the calling the convention would be unnecessary; but it was because the petitions of separate individuals had been rejected, and because the prisoner, and those with whom he acted, thought that the voice of the people might be raised louder than by petitions of individuals, and that then it would be heard : it was for that reason that he meant to call this convention ; the object of the convention was, to petition parliament in a different form, and in a voice that was more likely to be heard by them, in a voice which, he supposed, would be that of the Majority of the people of England. 
GIBBS 11606 entlemen, you heard read to you that which I shall have occasion to state more at large hereafter: the protest of that great coo stitutional lawyer, lord Camden, together with thirty-two other peers, against the nega tive put upon a motion for a committee to quire into the expenditure of the pubic money
GIBBS 11608 Why then, gentlemen, alter private petr tions have been received and rejected, It & lawful for the people to associate tor ep pose of obtaining that which parliament alone can give to them; and such associations are, (I am using the language of lord Camden, as great a constitutional lawyer as ever lived) such associations are legal and constitutional; and this is a legal and constitutional method of collecting the voice of the people, and of carrying it to the ear of parliament. 
GIBBS 11609 The next general topic of argument that was insisted upon by the attorney general, and the head of evidence that he went into was, I think, the proceedings of Mr. Hardy, and those with whom he was concerned 0 the Scotch Convention. He began with the instructions that were given to the delegates, whom they sent to that convention, and tbe article which he relies on as showing that the prisoner is guilty of the charge brought against him, was the seventh, in which it is stated “ That it is the duty of the people to resist any act of parliament repugnant to the original principles of the constitution, as would be every attempt to prohibit associa tions for the purpose of reform. 
GIBBS 11610 T certainly disagree with him in tbat; I certainly think that that was an improper resolution, but it is not an act of high treasoa; 
GIBBS 11611 suppose a particular act of parliament, o noxious to the public, is resisted ; suppose men tise in bodies to resist it; suppose they mise an insurrection in the country to resist it; that is high treason ; but conspiriag to rise an insurrection for the purpose of resisting such an actis not high treason
GIBBS 11613 Why then, gentlemen, if conspiring to raise an insurrection against an existing law, and to resist the operation and execution of that law, be not high treason, a fortiori, a resolution, to Oppose, if it shall be passed, a law which at present has no existence, cannot be high treason. «The prisoner, Mr. Hardy, is a member of the London Corresponding Society; he and those who acted with him are only affected by the Scotch Convention, as far as that convention acted under their authority, or with their approbation; as faras thev acted under their authprity—they are not attected by any thing but this resolution. When the convention met they came to some resolutions which I do not find myself interested upon this occasion to detend any farther than this, that they certainly are not overt acts of high treason; to them the same answer applies as applies to this resolution; they do not amount to any conspiracy for the purpose of raising or levying a war against the king’s person; nothin likeit; and, therefore, though they are sack asa quiet and reasonable man would disapprove, yet they are not such as amount to the Crime of high treason. I beg you always, gentlemen, to hold it in your minds that the question you have to try is, whether the prisoner, and those persons, with whom he was concerned, meant to call this convention for the purpose of overturning the government, and thereby deposing and destroying the king. Now you will not find throughout the whole course of these proceedings any evidence testifying that intent; you will find strong language used in letters that are written, very strong, perhaps—strong resolutions, but none of them amount to a proof of the crime with which he is charged; nor does it appear to me, however criminal they were, that he ought to be charged with any of the acts of that convention; none of them were high treason undoubtedly. 
GIBBS 11614 But how do they endeavour to fix them upon Mr. Hardy and those with whom he acted? merely by showing that when irritated at the fate of their delegates, whom they had sent there, and at that which they were told, trom high authority, was a horrid and unjustifiable judgment against them, they passed some violent, 1 will say, indecent resolutions upon the subject. , 
GIBBS 11615 Something is due to the human mind in that state; you will not be extreme to mark what is amiss in a case of this sort; you will look to the intention, and see if any thing is proved against this prisoner, which can brin; home to his mind the criminal act charge: upon this indictment, and unless you find some one act which furnishes plain direct and manifest proof, in the words of lord Coke, of a conspiring to overturn the government and depose the king, you will cast out of your mind such expressions as I am alluding to, and you will find, however you may disapprove of his conduct in some respects, that he 1s not guilty of that high crime which is now imputed to him. 
GIBBS 11616 It is said (I think it is uot supportable in law) that these delegates who met in convention in Scotland were guilty of high treason, and that therefore Mr. Hardy, who was one of a suciety who sent delegates, and who might approve the proceedings that passed there, that he also is guilty of high treason. I cannot bring myself to believe that it was really thought that the proceedings of the convention in Scotland brought the crime of high treason home to those who assented to them here; because I cannot understand how the conspiring here to do that can be high treason which was not high treason in those who did the thing in Scotland. You know very well, gentlemen, that the delegates, who sat in that convention, were prosecuted ; but they were not prosecuted for high treason, but for a misdemeanor. ‘The lord justice Clerk had the’same evidence befure him on that subject that you have now; ifit had been hightreason heywould have done that which it was his duty to do; he would not have tried the prisoners for a misdemeanor—he would have told the jury, on the first trial, that they must find the prisoner not guilty of the misdemeanor, because his offence was of a greater magnitude ; and a person. must not be brought to trial for a misdemeanor when the facts amount to proof of a higher crime. WhatI say upon this subject is law, his lordship will tell you so, that if a man be indicted for a crime of a lower description, and upon the trial the evidence goes to prove that he was guilty of one of a higher description, he cannot in law be convicted of that crime of a lower description ; and therefore I have the authority of the court of justiciary in Scotland ; the authority of those who instituted and conducted those prosecutions for misdemeanor only, to say that the meeting of the Scotch Convention, the acts of the delegates (1 am not speaking of Downie and Watt, they were not connected with them) were not high treason, and, therefore, the conspiring here to bring about these acts could not be so. ‘ 
GIBBS 11617 Gentlemen, these appear to me to be the general observations arising out of the mass of evidence, with which we are loaded in this cause, and from which the counsel for the crown would persuade you to believe, that the risoner, and those with whom he acted, have een guilty of high treason. I come now to the parol evidence, and I beg again and again to bring to your recollection that the question upon this part of the case is, whether the prisoner in conspiring to call together this convention meant to depose the king : I come now to that parol evidence by which the crown has endeavoured to su port this position, that the direct object of all these societies was, to drive the king from his throne, and thereby to compass his death. 
GIBBS 11618 The first two witnesses whom they called upon this subject were, two men from Sheffield, Camage and Broomhead; they are witnesses for the crown, and therefore their evidence is unimpeachable as far as it makes for us most certainly. They are called to prove that preparations were made to support measures of violence by which this convention was to carry its projects into execution; for you know, gentlemen, to suppose that a convention was to be called that were to act with force against the whole body of the government, and to depose the king, and notto show that that convention was furnished with something like adequate means to effect that intention, would be absurd and nonsensical. 
GIBBS 11619 They found it incumbent upon them, therefore, to lay before you pat that the prisoner, and those with whom he acted, had prepared means for supporting this convention by force against the whole armed body of the government. For this purpose they call Camage and Broomhead, and certainly they both do prove some of the facts, at least, which the crown called them to prove; they proved that some pikes were prepared at Sheffield : I admit it—but how does the fact come eut upon their cross-examination? What was the purpose for which these pikes were prepared? Watch the account that the witnesses for the crown who were called before you to tell you all the truth, and whose evidence you TMust attend to, as far as it makes for the prisoner, as well as against him, and must give equal credit to it,—see the reason they give for making these pikes ; they say they were made by aparty to whom they, the witnesses, belong, because they had ground, just and reasonable ground to apprehend that they should themselves be attacked by the opposite party. Broomhead had been beset in his house; inflammatory hand-bills had been sent abroad; a gun had been fired under the door of one of their houses, and that gun had been fired by a member of an armed body, who were of political sentiments opposite to the society. Then what becomes of the line of evidence which is directed by the crown to this object; namely, to show that the prisoner, and those who acted with him, had been conspiring with the people at Sheffield to procure pikes for the purpose of supporting this convention, when it should te called against the whole power of the ment of this country? They had prepared ikes, but their own witnesses tell you why they prepared them; they had prepared themte cause their persons their houses, and their ives were not safe; they had actually been attacked, their houses assailed, and inflammatory han bills had been circulated round the town, 2 viting people to attack them by force, and ther thought they might legally do that which they will never be toldthey may not legally do, tht when attacked they may repel force by force, and may make preparation for such resistance, if they have reason to expect an attack. 
GIBBS 11620 The late history of this country shows hew necessary this measure was, and some inst ces which I shall state, show to how purposes such force may be applied. We bare not forgotten the calamities of doctorPriestiey, at Birmingham; we know that there a mb, because they happened to differ from him ad some friends of fs in political opinions, beet his house, and rased it to the id; woold it not have been lawful for doctor Priestky upon that occasion, to have opposed that fore, and to have prepared for it, if he had forewea it? Then was it not lawful for these peopk, when they had notice from the opposite party that they should be attacked; when they bad actually in some instances been attacked; when inflammatory hand-bills had bea sent round the town for the purpose of aciting people to attack them, was it tha unlawful in them to prepare the means of de fence against such an attack? and how is the preparation made by them of these arms fr their defence to be construed into an act of high treason in Mr. Hardy, because, truly, Mr. Hardy laine member of the Comes ponding Society here, has corresponded wih a ieabe of the Sheffield Society, of whrh society these men who had so provided for the defence of their persons and houses, wet members. This is coming at treason, not by plain, direct, and manifest proofs ; not evenby that by which lord Coke says it oughtnot tote come at, by inferences, butcoming at itby fake and unfounded reasoning; it isassigning too cause what the evidence ascribes to another; it is attributing to these people a design whit they certainly had not, and which the w nesses who proved the fact of their having the pikes state they had not, thereby to implicate ina supposed lesign, which was never enletained by these men, the prisoner, who hid no sort of connexion with them. 
GIBBS 11621 Not only doctor Priestley was attacked Birmingham, but Mr. Walkerand other pe sons were attacked in the same manne t Manchester. We know also that Mr. Dent son, at Nottingham was so attacked, buthiring notice of it before-hand, he did pnvie himself with arms to defend himself sist that attack ; he used those arms, be was he the place, and two of the rioters who attacked his house fell, and the inquest upon that death found it justifiable homicide. What would have been the fate of Mr. Dennison, if he had not prepared himself with those means of defence 
GIBBS 11623 These instances show not only the neccssity, but the legality of providing arms against such attacks, when we are furnished with means of foreseeing them. But, gentlemen, not only do they take off all effect from that fact which was proved on the part of the crown, that pikes had been provided at Sheffield, but they prove something more. You observe that all the members of the Constitutional and London Corresponding Societies, and the Societies at Sheftield are endeavoured to be implicated in a general plot to calla convention for the purpose of deposing the king, and upon that ground the declarations and acts of all those people are received in evidence against us; we have a right then to ask them, when any of them are called here, what their views were ; if their views were to calla convention for the purpose of deposing the king, so far the plot is proved. Then what do the witnesses say? Camage and Broomhead are called by the crown, they say they had no idea of attacking the King, or the House of Lords; they had no idea of any thing but calling a convention which might make known to the House of Commons what was the pois opinion of the people; they had no idea of effecting the views of the convention by force, but only by the progress of reason; they meant to collect what was the general opinion of the people of the country, and if it should turn out to be the general opinion that this reform of parliament ought to be effected, then they believed, and I believe too, that the House of Commons would listen to that opinion so signified to them. 
GIBBS 11624 Another witness whom they called is Widdison. He comes from the same place, and you will recollect here that there had been given in evidence a letter from one Davison of Sheflield, to Mr. Hardy, stating what was true, that the patriots at Sheffield had provided themselves with pikes for their defence ; it is insisted that this defence was alla pretext, but when you come to hear the witnesses for the crown you see that it was not a pretext, that there was real danger of an attack. This Davison writes to Mr. Hardy, informing him that the patriotshad provided themselves with pikes for their defence, and telling him where their friends in London might supply themselves with pikes, if they thought proper, for the same purpose. It is imputed to Mr. Hardy the receiving this letter shows that he meant to provide this convention, or those who vere Ae act ame the opaxenten, with arms for the purpose of supporti! ir pretensions by force. It tent out that this letter contains another letter, to Norwich, which Mr. Hardy was desired to forward; both the letter to Mr. Hardy, and the letter for Norwich, remained in Mr. Hardy’s ssion from April 26th to the 12th of May, when they were seized ; he does not send that letter to Norwich, and he never mentions to his division that he had received such a letter; he never proposes to any of them to furnish themselves with arms. What then isthe fair conclusion to be drawn from these facts? You were in danger at Sheffield, and you provided yourselves with pikes there, and you did right In doing so; but we do not yet feel there is the same danger in London; we do not believe that we shall be attacked ; therefore Mr. Hardy takes no notice of this communication; he does not send the letter to Norwich, Nor state it to his division, or to any of his friends in London, except in the instance I shall mention presently. I say he took no step upon it, because he is desired to address any answer to one Moody at Sheffield, who is afterwards called asa witness by the crown, and who swore positively that no letter from Mr. Hardy, or any of the society, ever came to his hands; a conclusive proof that nothing was done by Mr. Hardy, or any of his society, at least with his knowledge, upon that letter, and it is, therefore, conclusive proof that he did not mean, upon a concert between him and Davison, to use these arms which were rovided at Sheffield for the protection and lefence of that society, he did not mean to use them against the government of the country. 
GIBBS 11625 Widdison, who is called also to this fact of the pikes, is cross-examined by us as to the purposes of their institution; he and they all Join in telling you their object was only parliamentary reform, that they wished to obtain it by peaceable means; that they meant to call this convention, not in order that they might oppose the government forcibly, not in order that they might take upon themselves the functions of parliament, not that they might enforce their opinions by dint of arms, but merely that they might represent to the House of Commons, what was the opinion of the majority of the people. 
GIBBS 11626 Hill, another witness, also states the same things ; he proves they had the pikes, but he proves that they were provided for the same purpose. Then great reliance is placed upon the evidence of Edwards; it is said that Mr. Hardy did communicate this letter to Edwards, and furnished him with the means of getting these pikes. Now how did he communicate it to him
GIBBS 11628 Hardy and asks him if he could give him the direction to a person who made the pikes at Sheffield; Hardy having this letter in his pocket, never having communicated it to a single soul (for, if be had, the prosecutors would have knownit, for they have had spies upon him for these three years), being asked by Edwards for a direction to a man at Sheffield, he does give him that direction, and that is the only use Hardy ever makes of the letter he received from Shetteld, and he makes no use whatever of the inclosure to Norwich; Hardy did not want any of these pikes— how came Edwards to ask for them? Not from any communication he had with Hardy; he is the crown’s witness, and what he says on one side must be believed, as well as what he says on the other; he had it, he says, for the purpose of defending himself, if illegally stat ba, He says great insults had been offered him, and it was for that purpose only that he desired a direction to this man. He made one for himself. Is Mr. Hardy answerable for all his acts? And if he were, what does this amount to? Entertaining, perhaps, a fulse idea of a danger that threatens him, he chose to provide himself with a pike, and to advise two or three other persons to do the same thing. Is this evidence that can convince any reasonable mind, or can go a Step towards convincing a man of common Teason that these pikes were procured by Mr. Hardy, and those he acted with, for the puspose of supporting this convention which was to be called, for the purpose of resisting by force the whole united military of this kingdom, and all the armed associations whic have been raised in the country 
GIBBS 11630 If these people had the will, they had me means; and you are to try whether ther ind the will; you are to try whether it was tle intention of these people to call this conve tion, and then to act themselves, through iis convention, by force of arms; now if yuu ind them making no preparation for this, if re find them not prepared to attack a sinzk company of guards, if it resisted them ; it becomes incredible that they should enternm any such project. In most cases of projected insurrection that we know from history, collect from the State Trials, there is either party in the country in arms to which the m surgents can immediately attach themselves, or else there are preparations for the levvze troops, which troops are to be collected, ead to be formed into a body at the time that th conspirators themselves are to rise ; but here there is a convention to meet immediatels, and yet no proof of that, without which thy indictment cannot stand fora moment, no prot of any levies on fcot, nor any preparations i raising that force with which it is pretemied the convention was to act. 
GIBBS 11631 Gentlemen, another witness whom the called is Samuel Williams, and he is to prove not only that Mr. Hardy had provided himet with pikes to enforce thedecrees of this cov vention, but also that he had embodied a fe of musketeers to serve under it. Now wht does that evidence amount to? 
GIBBS 11632 Mr. Samuel Williams, whois a gun engrave, and by that means connected with gun-smiths ordered a pair of shoes of Mr. Hardy at the end of the year 1793; he wished him to tek a gun(this doesnot move from Hardy original's. but he asked Hardy to take a gun of his’ Mr. Hardy is supposed to be a man who bad at this time in his minds plan for overturo7g the government by force, and for arming exber this convention itself, or arming an army act under this convention; they were not thee provided with arms; if Mr. Hardy had a tome in buying this gun, but he re such intention as this in his mind he would have caught at the proposal immediately ; this is a fair opportunity, as far as it goes, there can be no pretence to impute any thing uses to percha it; it remains with him a fortnight fore he can find a chap fur it: at the end of that fortnight the man coming again, and the purpose of supportin ordering a pair of boots, he has then got him a-customer. Now is that the conduct of a maa who had such a design in his mind as this indictment imputes to the prisoner? for he must have had it in his mind at this time, if at all, because they say that the conspiracy commenced before the delegates were sent to the Scotch Convention; yet if Mr. Hardy had in his mind the arming a troop for this convention, sarely he would have caught at the opportu. 
GIBBS 11633 way, but he does not. 
GIBBS 11634 nity of providing himself with arms in this A fortnight passes before he could get rid of this gun, and after wards upon the importunity of this man, who was become his customer, he gets off two or more. Then Mr. Hardy is to be affected with the business of Mr. Franklow’s Lambeth Associalion, and Williams says that Mr. Hardy recom
GIBBS 11635 Globe Tavern. ciation was a proper or an improper one, but recommended him to Mr. Franklow. Why itis notorious that Frank!ow had an association, he made no secret of it himself; those who belonged to his corps wore uniforms, he himself appeared publicly in this uniform at the dinner at the T know not whether the asso
GIBBS 11636 ; certainly it was an open and avowed association—probably Franklow, seeing the country full of armed associations, chose to have one ofhis own. Whether he had a right to do it, or not, I do not say, but it certainly is not an act of high treason. Seeing that other people, whom he thought no better affected than himself, had raised men, armed, and drilled them, it-was not unnatural that he should be desirous of doing the same, especially as he had been in the army before; a sort of esprit du corps 
GIBBS 11637 ‘that might belong to my learned friend. I 
GIBBS 11638 remember myself being in arms, and acting asa lieutenant under him (Mr. Erskine] at the time of the riots in the year 1780, and very proud we were of our arms, regimentals 
GIBBS 11639 ‘we had not, but very proud we were of: our muskets. I remember no orders from government to do this, no commission from the lord lieutenant; but as other people associated for the same purpose round us, we did it also; and Mr. Franklow instituted his association in the same way; it was a known public thing, there were printed orders and regulations, and he went publicly about in his uniform, To say that because that unfortunate man at the bar recommended Williams to furnish Franklow’s association with two or three guns, therefore he must be presumed, without farther proof, to have assisted m raising an armed body for the purpose of supporting this convention by force against’ the established government of the country, is the most alarming proposition I ever heard ina court of justice
GIBBS 11641 Gentlemen, the next witness whom they call is Gosling, and Mr. Gosling is one of that infamous set of men (for so surely I may call them) who, having no means of supporting themselves, endeavour to procure a Tivelihood by insinuating themselves into the secrets of others, and discovering them to the government; I do not say that men are not to be charged with acts of theirs discovered by spies, but I say that a man of this description, who gives evidence against persons into whose confidence he has endeavoured to insinuate himself, is to be heard and attended to with very great caution and reserve; his, value rises according to the importance of his testimony, he is a more or less valuable witness according as the acts which he communicates to his employers are more or less criminal; he is interested therefore to enhance them, and to that motive it is that I attribute a great deal of the testimony of Gosling. If a man of this description goes through his evidence fairly, without any objection arising upon the manner in which he gives his testimony ; if he relates to you a plain, regular, conekitent series of facts, I admit thatyou ought to attend to him. But recollect, gentlemen, how this man demeaned himself upon his cross-examination. In his examination in chief he was fluent, he was easy ;, he had all his facts ready, and he stated them all precisely ; but he sunk under my learned friend when he came to the cross-examina- , tion, he was confounded and abashed. I shall not pretend to go through the whole of his evidence, the day would not admit of it; but I remember he stated that one of those persons, whom they would have implicated in the guilt of the prisoncr, said he had been going about the country, to corrupt the soldiers, that he bad corrupted a considerable number of them, but he had found many who stood out againsthim. Now, if thathad been true, you would have had here all those soldiers who resisted him, as witnesses; there could be no difficulty in calling them, it was an easy thing for government to have collected who the men were whom this person had unsuccessfully attempted to tamper with, and their not being able to discover any of those men whom he had so unsuccessfully attempted to corrupt; there not heing called a single witness of that description to support the evidence given by Gosling upon that subject, is a plain proof to me that his evidence in that respect was not true; add to that observation upon his evidence, the manner in which he deported himself upon his cross-examination, the difficulty my learned friend had to get from him any answers to the plainest questions that he put, and I think you will have no doubt to say that what he swears unsupported by any other witnesses, speaking directly to the same facts, is not deserving of any credit in a cause Tike this. 
GIBBS 11642 Gentlemen, another witness of this description is Lynam, his evidence lasted five or six hours; itis utterly impossible for me to ge through it literally, but you recollect that he spoke from notes he had taken, in which he entered short memorandums; he had mistaken a great number of naines which he had entered in these notes, Curtis for Carter, &c. as far as they went they were full of mistakes, and there was hardly a single fact that hie spoke of which fixed any degree of criminality upon Mr. Hardy, or those with whom he was connected, that was found in his notes, but he related those facts from his memory ; if the notes of what he wrote down are so incorrect as to confound one name with another, what credit can you give to his recollection? He tells you that he did not attend to the particular persons who held the conversations of which he speaks, but that this, and that general conversation, passed at these meetlogs. gentlemen, I will tell you why he said this; it might have been dangerous to be more particular ; he might have been contradicted ; and any thing that had been said, by any of those people, he knew was ruled to be evidence of the general plot; consequently what he stated to have been said in general conversation, among them there was evidence.—Who told you this
GIBBS 11644 Did not he think it material, at the time when he attended, to collect the names of those who suid this or that particular thing
GIBBS 11646 There is another witness of the Lambeth Association brought forward to prove ths detestable plot, and that is Mr. Coates, Franklow’s apprentice. The account he gives of this Lambeth Association is, that it was public, that Franklow had a cartouch ber is true, but that cartouch box lay open, with others, upon the work board; he rez mentals, but we heard in evidence befure, that he appeared in them, publicly, at the Globe-tavern. 
GIBBS 11647 They come next, gentlemen, to the evidance of a Mr. Groves, aud I beg your partcular attention to him
GIBBS 11649 Now, in the first place, let us see how Groves, in his examination in chief, relates these facts. With respect to the knives, he tells you, that he was at Chalk Farm; that he was in a shed with about ten people; that five or six of them pulled out a little instrument, all exactly alike, which were French knives, and that Pearce was one of them; that somebody said, they were bread and cheese knives, and then a smile went round; that he asked, where they might be got; they said, at Green’s, in Orange-street, who was & perfumer and hair-dresser; he says, a week after he went to buy one; and then his ob:et is to show you, that Green had sold a great number of these kuives, for the purpose of arming this convention, or their army; aod that he had sold them in such a way as show, that he was sensible of the impzopnety of what he was about; he says, Greea uid him he had sold two or three hundred; be says, 4:¢ told me to speak very low, for the parlour door’ was open, and his wife wasa damn’d aristocrat. It is evident he meant, that it should be inferred from hence, that Green, who was one of this society, had plotted with Mr. Hardy, for arming this multitude that were to support this convention ; that he had contrived to procure these knives from Sheffield, for the purpose of arming them, and had alrcady collected a body of two or threc hundred, thus armed. 
GIBBS 11650 “ Another object that he had, was, to collect the sense of the society, from what passed at the meeting, on the 2nd of May, at the Crown and Anchor; and he tells you, that Mr. Horne Tooke was there, and it is out of his mouth that he collects this
GIBBS 11652 Now see how this comes out in the course of the cross-examination. First, with respect to Mr. Tooke; you remember, that the question here is, whether the prisoner has conspired to call this Convention, for the purpose of deposing the king, and that this witness was examined for the purpose of proving, that language had been held indicative of an intention to overturn the government, and to depose the king; and that this Groves, in his examination in chief, stated to you, that Mr. Tooke had so spoken of the House of Commons, and of the House of Lords
GIBBS 11654 Then what does this evidence amount to P —See what is the question between us
GIBBS 11656 Consider, gentlemen, how very strong this evidence is for us, when it comes out of the mouth of the prosecutor's witness. — We admit, that the object was to induce the Honse of Commons, hearing the general sense of the people, to reform the representation. This is the opinion of Mr. Tooke; this is the language which he held, and which he held in the presence of that spy. 
GIBBS 11657 These observations go completely, not only to put this evidence of Mr. Groves out of the case, as bearing upon this cause, but they go farther, in two respects. First, they go to show (and I am entitled to the full strength of that application of them) that the object, and the only object of these people, was a reform in the House of Commons; that a man, charged to be connected with them in this conspiracy, did, in their face, absolutely negative any design upon the king, or the House of Lords; that he confined his complaints to the House of Commons; that he spoke with respect of the person and of the office of the king, and yet this witness is called to prove, that they wished to drive the king out of his place in the constitution; he proves the direct contrary; he proves, that the object of all the people there assembled, spoken by the voice of Mr. Tooke (I say, that was the object of them all, because none contradicted him) was, to maintain the dignity of the House of Lords, and to maintain the person and dignity of the king. 
GIBBS 11658 Gentlemen, that is not the only use of the evidence of this man; it furnishes us with a fearful example, how much mischief may be done by the evidence of spies; we have no means of correcting their evidence; we know not what will be the course of it; we have no clue ta cross-examine them; and it was mere accident, that his testimony did not leave upon your minds the impression, that Mr. Tooke, in this large assembly, had declared himself against both the House of Commons, and the House of Lords; for he expressly said, at first, that he complimented the House of Lords in the same way that be did the House of Commons, and so we should have been fixed with this imputation, that, sitting at diuner with Mr. Tooke, and five hundred people, all of whom are attempted tobe connected in this plot, we countenanced a doctrine which was publicly broached in that assembly, that all the Lords and Commons were a sink of corruption, and, consequently, that an attack was levelled at them all ; what a situation then would my client have been in, from our not knowing how to examine the witness; from our not knowing how to lead him to the truth, which he kept back, and which he knew to be material, and which he ought, upon his oath, to have told upon his examination in chief; from our not having the clue to his cross-examination, that man at the bar might have been condemned to the extreme punishment of high treason, None but a spy so demeans himself 3 None but a dishonest man; none but a miscreant, like him, seeps back, in his examination in chief, all that he thinks will make for a prisoner, and delivers all that is against him. I am entitled to say he did so; and from thence entitled to caution you, how you credit the testimony of such witnesses, unless you find their evidence confirmed by other witNesses, speaking to the same fact. 
GIBBS 11659 Gentlemen, I have not done with Groves yet; he has beem guilty not only of a supPression of the truth, but he has been guilty of direct perjury; a perjury, committed by him, for the putpose of enhancing his own value with those by whom he is employed, at the price of that man’s life; a crime which, I am sorry to say, is not in law murder; that, however, was his object, and I will shew you it was his object. I observed, that another part of his evidence went to show, that Greea was a conspirator with the rest in this plet; that he had conspired to assist this convestion by force, and, in the prosecution of that conspiracy, had already sold two or three hundred knives, for the purpose of arming the conspirators. 
GIBBS 11660 Groves says, he went to Green's, for the purpose of purchasing one of those knives; that all was secrecy; Green told him “to spesk low, for the parlour door was open, and his wife was a damn’d aristocrat. Now the anly object that he could have in so representsg the thing was, to make you believe, tht Green sold these knives in private. Greenis afterwards called, as a witness for the crowa, and what is the account that he gives of this? Ile tells you, that, in the fair and ordingry course of trade, he had three dozen of these knives, and he had sold, I think, thirteeper fourteen, each to a different person; he hed them sent to him in packages, of six or seven in a package ; he says, he sent one yackagen Mr. Hardy, but that part does not apply to Groves’s evidence. 
GIBBS 11661 This evidence is, you see, inconsistent with the account that Groves gives ; this, however, may not affect Groves with perjury ; because, though this is the truth, Green may have given a different account to Groves. Withs view to ascertain that, he is asked, did you ever tell Groves you had sold two or thre hundred 
GIBBS 11663 I have done with so much of Green’s evidence as relates to the contradiction to Groves. But there is another thing which Green, a witness for the crown, swears to, and which falls in with the rest of our evidence. He is asked, whether he, being a member of this society, and acting with them upon many occasions, whether he had any idea that this society, or any deputation from them, or any convention to which they sent delegates, was either to attack the person of the king, or to effectuate any of their opinions by force of arms? He tells you, in express terms, no, not aman of us, had any such object; our object was parliamentary reform; the means by which we were to effect that parliamentary reform, not being able to effect it by petitions, was, by a convention, to act peaceably. It was first to collect the opinion of the public, and then to represent it to parliament
GIBBS 11665 Then, gentlemen, after these witnesses, who go to the proof of what had passed in England, they endeavour to implicate us in the guilt of Watt, who has been lately executed for high treason, at Edinburgh, and for that purpose they call Mr. McEwan. There is no way by which at at all connect Hardy with Watt, except, I think, thata letter was sent by Hardy to Skirving, who was a member of a society to which Watt belonged; and in a conversation between Watt and Stock, at Eaiabiare, it appeared, that Watt was deSirous of sending a letter to Hardy, and communicated with Stock, how he might send that letter, without saying what it was about; but no such letter appears ever to have been sent; what the subject was upon which he Meant to correspond with him, does not appear; and yet it is in evidence to you, that the letters that were sent to Mr. Hardy, I cannot say, positively, that it appears in evidence that all were, but there is every reason to suppose, that all the letters which were sent to Mr. Hardy, upon this subject, were seized by the crown 3 so that, I think, you that he personally knew that any such man as Watt existed, and yet it is endeavoured to affect him, by what Watt did in Edinburgh, though none of the delegates who sat with Watt there, are attempted to be affected by it. 
GIBBS 11666 Who is this Mr. Watt? Why Watt was a spy, employed by government, up to a certain extent; he was discharged by them from that employment, I believe, because he over-valued his services; so it appeared, I understand, upon his own trial; being discharged by government, he continues to associate with the Scotch Convention, and he makes a violent proposal there, which all who were present reject; I do not mean that, in the convention, he made the proposal; but among some of the members, he made a proposal, which all who were present instantly rejected. 
GIBBS 11667 Now I will tell you what I firmly believe to have been the case. Watt had been a spy ; he had carried communications to government; he pretended, perhaps, to know more than he did; he over-valued the communications he did carry, and therefore was discarded ; he still fixed himself upon these men, who did not know that he bad been a spy, and kept company with him; and I do verily, in my conscience, believe, that he made this pespossl to them with a view to carry the information of it afterwards to government, and then to hang these men, if he could get them to agree with him. I believe that to be the case ; I believe him to have been a determined miscreant, and I am not sorry that he was hanged, if that were the case, because he justly deserved it; but having, as a spy, carried information to government; having required a higher price for his services than vernment thought he deserved, he had n discarded; he afterwards goes back, and makes this proposal, which was rejected withabhorrence by them, and I do verily believe he made this proposal for the sole purpose of implicating them in the guilt of such a project, that he might carry the information to vernment, and thereby show he was worthy of his hire; that he might show he was worth the price he asked, Now take it cither way; that te really meant to accomplish this roject, or that, not meaning to accomplish it, Es wished to draw other people into it, fur the sake of sending them to the gallows, he has met the fate he richly deserved. 
GIBBS 11668 But observe another thing. Watt is to be connected with Mr. Hardy. How? Through the Scotch Convention; because Mr. Hardy corresponded with the Scotch Convention, and because Watt was a member of that con. vention. Good God! have they attempted to fix this guilt upon any of the delegutes to the Scotch Convention, except those two individuals, Watt and Downie 
GIBBS 11670 bit treason
GIBBS 11672 Another observation arises upon this evidence of Mr. McEwan; he is a Scotchman, and he was a member of the Scotch Convention, and you have heard from him what he thinks of the Scotch Convention, and I think You have reason to believe from the manner in which he gave his evidence that you receive from him his real sentiments upon all the subjects upon which he is questioned, and a true relation of all the facts to which he was examined; was there any difficulty in getting from him this account of Watt? Did not he immediately, upon being asked, communicate the whole story? Did not he express his own abhorrence of it? I believe he came voluntarily to give this account; I am sure the contrary does not appear in the cause, and Iam entitled, as counsel for the prisoner, to insist that no fact exists which is not proved. The witness came forward in the ordinary course, and therefore I am entitled to suppose, that coming forward in the ordinary course, he did it voluntarily, in order to state facts to “you, upon which you will have to reason when you come to consider what verdict you will give. When I say that no compulsory means were used to bring this witness to the bar, it is not because it is material to me whether it le so or not, yet still I am entitled to make that assumpticn. Now what is the account he gives of the whole of this business? and here I am answering that part of their case which endeavours to implicate us in the guilt of those persons at Edinburgh. He states that there was no idea of trenching on the authority of the King, or Lords; that there was no idea of assuming the functions of parliament; that nothing was to be done by force, and the very night on which they were dispersed, it appears, they had considered upon petitioning either the parliament, or the king: then, if that were the case, what becomes of the charge against the prisoner? If in all this vast field ot evidence, which they have taken, they cannot prove any design, hy means of this convention in Scotland, to depose the king by force, what becomes of the charge against Mr. Hardy, who was not directly implicated eva in what that convention really did? The charge against him is, that he conspired, wit: others, to call a convention, which convetion was to act by force of arms against tk povennitent of the country, and to depose the ing. Surely the proceedings at Edinbas furnish no proof of this sort against him. 
GIBBS 11673 I observe, and I dare say the fact will relied upon, by the solicitor general in reply, that all the witnesses who have been que tioned to these circumstances (their witnesses as well as ours) were asked by the atlomegeneral, whether they thought certain res tions that were shown to them were peacute and orderly? Some had seen them, sae had not. Now I have nothing to dowd their opinion upon the point, whether the resolutions were peaceable or orderly. Th question, in this cause, is not whether thez people had come to peaceable and orderly m solutions; but the question is whether ther have committed an overt act the direct obet of which was to depose the king, and te ultimate object of which was to bring abon his death; that is the question for your dete mination. And it is very hard upon the pr soner if dust is to be thrown inte the eyes the jury, by endeavouring to fix their attentka upon facts which do not amount to an art«l high treason (for if one act does not, all taken together cannot) for the sake of preventing them from looking directly to that which 3 alone the object of their inquiry, name, whether this prisoner did conspire, will others, to destroy the king, when they to call a convention? And it matters ot whether this report of the secret commiliee be full of obnoxious and offensive resolutions; it matters not whether they are guilty of the other crimes in the catalogue of crimizal law: the sole question is, whether they hie been guilty of high treason? whethet Hef meant to call this convention for the purpot of deposing the king? And when you every one of the witnesses for the whether they had any such intention; i they tell you in plain direct words that Uey had uo such intention; that their views peaceable, and that they meant only top duce a parliamentary reform, by calling convention ; you are not to be led away by9 accumulation of all these acts (offensive, Pe haps, but not one of them amounting overt act of treason) to find the prt guilty of so high a crime, because you 4 prove of his politics, or because you dist}Pt of some of his conduct. ‘Thank God! i not the way in which a prisoner is to be in this country !—You are to keep your the fact with which he is charged, 0 inquire whether he is guilty of ten thos misdemeanors; whether he is obnoxios. this or that set of men; whether his int are such as you or I should approves whether he has been guilty of the crime iE which he stands charged, namely, when his project of a convention was directed immediately to the deposition of the king, and ; to be guilty of High treason, and ultimately to bis death, and if you do not find that, you cannot find the prisoner eet Gentlemen, I have already observed upon the miserable case that is made on the subject of arms, muskets, and pikes, and I am perfectly persuaded that that part of this case -would never have been laid before you, if 2 those who conduct this prosecution had not entertained a firm and certain opinion that without it they could do nothing ; such evi. dence weakens a strong case ; it is of a nature to add nothing to the strength of a case that could stand by itself; but we know very well that in a certain stage of a cause, when it is found that’ there is not sufficient to fix that charge upon the prisoner, without fixing which there must be a verdict of acquittal, any thing is attempted. Hence, arose the attempt to fix Mr. Hardy with the acts of Watt; one’s Mind revolts at it, and I am sure it would ; Rever have been attempted, if it had not been thought necessary to the support of this cause, Gentlemen, I told you before I had the ; best authority for saying that the delegates in Scotland, none at least of them but Watt and Downie, had been guilty of high treason. I have the best authority for saying that, because Lhave the authority of diisae who prosecuted them for a misdemeanor, and of the judges before whom they were convicted of a misde; Meanor. If they were known to be guilty of high treason, and yet were prosecuted for misdemeanors, it was not humanity so to Prosecute them ; true humanity is to be shown tothe innocent, and not to the guilty; the guilty should be punished up to the extent of their crimes, but if these men were known to be guilty of high treason, and yet were prosecuted only for misdemeanors, that prosecution becomes a snare to others; it holds out to them that acts of this sort are not high treason, it waits for their going on perhaps till they have accomplished the act, and then the net is thrown over them; they are told, this was a trap laid for you, we knew that those others had been uty of high treason, but we thought if we punished them as traitors, you would not gu on ; you have gone on, and now you must take the consequence; it is nothing to you how we proceed against other men; we will proceed against you as the law is—we will proceed against you for high treason, although we proceeded against them only for misdemeanors. I say that is not true humanity ; those persons who had been guilty of high treason should have been punished as traitors, and a trap should not have been laid for those who at that time were innocent of it; humanity should have been shown to those who had not been then guilty of crimes, and not to those who had. Ido not say that this was the conduct either of the prosecutors of these delegates, or of the judges who tried them; but I ain entitled from their conduct to assert this, that they did not believe them that they prosecuted them only for misdemeanors, because they knew them to be guilty only of misdemeanors. 
GIBBS 11674 Gentlemen, I have stated to you the ground upon which this prosecution is founded ; it is compassing the king’s death. I have stated to you that which I beg you always to hold in your minds, that the foundation of this prosecution is, that the prisoner called this convention for the purpose of deposing the king. I have stated to you that none of those acts which are contained in the volume of written evidence that has been laid before you, amount to proof of that fact. I should have stated before, it was an omission that I did not, but: I will now state to you what I apprehend to be the overt act charged in the indictment, and relied upon in proof as fixing this crime upon the prisoner; it consists in the resolution for calling a convention; the crime imputed is, that he resolved to call it for the purpose of deposing the king. 
GIBBS 11675 Now I beg you to hear the language of that resolution, as it was ultimately agreed to— “ That it appears to this committee very desirable thata general meeting, or Convention of the Friends of Liberty should be called, for the purpose of taking into consideration the proper methods of obtaining a full and fair representation of the people, that is the overt act with which the prisoneris charged. Wh, then, gentlemen, ihe professed and avow object of this convention by those who resolved that it should be called, was, not that it should take arms into its hands, not that it should entertain others who had arms in their hands, but merely that it should take into its consideration the proper methods of obtaining a full and fair representation of the people. This is the language which they hold throughout all their resolutions, and I insist that there is no direct evidence on the part of the crown which shows that this is a mere pretext. I shall come presently to that part of the case, and to the grounds there are for saying this was not a pretext; at present I am only considering how the evidence for the crown have made out their case; upon this part of the case you must believe, before you convict the prisoner, not only that there was force prepared, but that it was his intention that this convention should use that force. 
GIBBS 11676 Now a very remarkable observation that arises in the case is, that there is nota sin; le tittle of evidence from the beginning to the end which unites the project of the convention with any thing of arms, that connects or brings them together at all; they had spies upon all their proceedings—all their meetings were watched over—every member of the society had, when in the society, and robably at many other times, a man at his elbow who: would give an account of every thing that assed, and yet there is not a single word that has tallen fromany of the witnesses ; nota single expression, I believe, to be found in all: the written evidence, that connects the calling of the convention with the preparation of any force ; unless you connect the two together, you cannot find the prisoner guilty upon this charge in the indictment; there is no proo' which can be stated to you, none that can be left to your consideration without the parol evidence that these men intended that the convention should act by force; throughout the written evidence they expressly disavow it. 
GIBBS 11677 You must believe men’s words, unless the direct contrary is proved; but when the crown has given in evidence this business of arms, they tell you, and I am entitled to assume it, that this is the force which those members of the convention meant to use; if there was any other they would show it, and’ the conclusion follows, that if they did not mean to use this force, they meant to use’ 
GIBBS 11678 none. The crown knew all they had done; the question is, whether the convention meant to use force; if the crown cannot prove they Meant to use this force, they do not prove they meant to use any; the case would have been more strong, perhaps, upon that part of it, if they had not called their witnesses, because then you would have been told that a great deal was to be left to fair presumption and inference : that though they had not proved it, yet you were to presume it from the other facts proved ; but they have taken upon themselves to show you what that force was which this convention was to use, and they put it upon the pikes, the muskets, and the knives. Thee we have pretty well disposed of them 
GIBBS 11679 But supposing there was any thing serious in this proof of the pikes, the muskets, and the knives, there is no evidence connecting it with the convention; and if it had been the project of these people, if it had ever entered into the minds of any of them that this force should be used by that convention which they intended to call, it is impossible that the crown should not have been able to have laid evidence of it before you. You see they have spies every where; you see when we call a witness, they know him better than we do; they have had a man in every society in London. They can ask when Mr. Stevens was called, whether it was Mr. Stevens of Rathbone- place, or Mr. Stevens of the Minories. They know them all, they have watched at their elbows, they have been vigilant, and they are to be commended for it; ie still it fortifies my observation, that they know all that is in this case; that nothing is left to presumption, to inference ; that all that exists as been brought forward by them, and that you have nothing to form your judgment: upen, except that which they have laid before you; they have laid before you, therefore, all which exists of arms; they have laid nothing before you to show-that these arms were connected in- any way with the convention: ‘Therefore, I bave-a right to assume that the lise fact does not exist, that it ever wae nik contemplation of these men that thee am: should be so used; because if that had bese their contemplation, these men who tk of what they mean, would hy enough f talked of this, and it would have le: 
GIBBS 11680 known to the officers of the crown. Hor ublic has every thing been done whit iss been done? There is hardly a single x: of theirs imputed to them as a crime; one out of that number and variety of tte acts which are all woven up in this isinar web that is now spread before you; not which the prisoner, and those with when acted, have not publiely avowed in the fe of day. It may be said that if the acts illegal, this adds to their illegality ; that te: are not only illegal, but they are impute but that does not make them high tres: and it shows that what. these men profes were really their objects ; it shows that the acted bond fide; it shows that they thot they were about that which they hed nst todo, and that is the way in which usetk argument ; it shows that though they mitt be wrong, that though they might be eos; illegally, they thought they were ectiog k. gally, or they never would have submitted the investigation of courts: of justice, thet acts which are now complained of as consti ting the crime of high treason. Gentlemen, hitherto I have only remattd upon the evidence that has been produce the part of the crown; you observe it app from the language of our resolutions eer they have produced against us, that our ject was parliamentary reform; that langnt they say may have been a mere pretest, i may have covered a different desiz0. ee have it upon oath that this and nothing was the object of those people with wi they say we are connected, for every witit whom they have called, and who keer objects of those people, has sworn pares objects were peaceable. This is the e on the part of the crown. th Now, gentlemen, we have confirm ss evidence of the crown by evidence of our we have added to the number of wiuew whom the crown have called, others wirgia an account of what were the motives of iy societies, what was their end, 3 what means by which they meant to - ue end; every one of those witnesses, a we after another, has agreed in saying ths end was: a parliamentary reform, 29 call th to accomplish that end they meant (0 convention, yet it itever entered into minds to conceive that this conventt na to act by force; on the contrary, that tte to act by all peaceable means, to wetel voice of the country, and whe a os means of that convention, it was to eth by the same organ to the House of who it was supposed would listen 0"it Gentlemen, it would be idle 2 pat would be cruel towards you, td go cularly into the evidence than is necessary. 1 think I have stated what is the general effect of the evidence of every witness we have called; but I think there are two who were called last—I mean Mr. Sheridan and Mr. Francis, who spoke more particularly to this fact, 
GIBBS 11681 ‘ and whose evidence will deserve more of your consideration, because they show most decidedly that the objects the prisoner has always professed, were his real objects. Gentlemen, you recollect the time when there was an alarm in the kingdom, when the militia was suddenly embodied, and parlia Tent was assembled. Parliament was assembled, indeed, for the purpose of embodying the militia, because without it the militia 
GIBBS 11682  could not be embodied in a legal way; the ground alleged for calling ther was, that there were disturbances and insurrections in the kingdom; there were some gentlemen who thought that there did not at that time exist those disturbances and insurrections which were stated, and accordingly an inquiry was instituted into the real existence of them; upon that occasion Mr. Hardy attended Mr. Sheridan, and Mr. Sheristates to you in terms that Mr. Hardy arliament togewished a committee to be appointed; he wished an inquiry to be made, and he was 
GIBBS 11683 Yeady, and was to have laid before Mr. Sheri" dan, nay he was to have been called before the House of Commons, and to give an account there of all he knew relative to that business; be state! that their societies did meet at public-houses; that publicans, bably thinking their licences would be taken away, would not permit them to meet in their houses any more; that they had accordingly met at private houses; that he (Mr. Hardy) had communicated a list of these houses, and hadl given Mr. Sheridan all the information in his power ; that he wished an inquiry might be instituted, in order to show to the iament and the public what their real’ iee was: that he was ready to lay before them all the papers, all the documents relative to the prveress of this society. This seems te me to furnish extremely strong proof that Mr. Hardy acted bund fide; that he had then no criminal intent in his mind, nor had any of those acting with him, because if they had, he would have withdrawn from such an inquiry ; instead of that he comes forward publicly, deSires that an inquiry into their conduct may be institued, and he gave every assistance in his power for that purpose. Eappeass from Mr. Francis’s evidence, that what Mr. Hardy says has always been his object, always was so; he and some other members of this society attended Mr. Francis, wishing him to pace a petition to parliament, for annual parliaments and universal suffrage. Mr. Francis says, Mr. Hardy struck him, particularly from his deies, as areasonable, quiet man. Mr. heridan likewise gave that testimony to his tex: he says he remarked him for his peaceable and decent deportment ; thet come ing to him to desire him to present this peti tion, he conversed with them upon the subject; and they said then, what they now sayy notwithstanding this sent prosecution against them, that they learned their principles from the duke of Richmond’s letter that they were convinced by his arguments ; and I am afraid that they still hold the same opinions. I hope it is no reflexion upon any. man, not to entertain these vpinions; for I do not myself; yet still it is surely am excuse to such a man as Mr. Hardy, that he, holds opinions such as the duke of Rich mond entertains, and not only entertains, but has given to the ae as his opinions, and acted upon himself. They adhered to their object, Mr. Francis says, of poiversak suffrage; he stated to them, that that wag net the usual form of a petition, and they had better leave it to the House, what sort of reform should be adopted. They still, Mr. Francis says, adhered to their object; but they were ready, if, according to the forms of the House, it was more respectful, to leave the whole to the wisdum of tha House of Commons, what means they should adopt; they were ready to pregent their Petition in the general form; but still they adhered to their principle, that what they wished for was universal suffrage. Surely this must show, beyond doubt, that these men really thought it would be good thing to obtain universal suffrage, and that this was the object, and the only object which they i , and bone fide pursued. 
GIBBS 11684 But, gentlemen, those who conduct this prosecution wish to persuade you that there’ 18 more in it tham lies upon the surface; that these men have not acted honestly; that they have not acted bond fide; that this which they have held out as their object, and this which they have held out as their means of obtaining that object, are a mere pretext, and that there is no colour for insisting thet they are their real opinions
GIBBS 11686 Now, let'us examine it’ in its parts.—The first proposition is, that the House of Comfons is corrupt—I do not mean to say that the House of Commons is corrupt; but I am examining whether Mr. Hardy, who has inned his faith upon the duke of Richraond, as not ground for saying so, and that that eorruption proceeds from the want ofa proper representation of the people in the House of Commons. What does the duke of Richmond say upon that subject 
GIBBS 11688 he remedy, then, that is to be applied to this, is, in the opinion of Mr. Hardy and his friends, annual parliaments and universal suffrage. Why, what does the duke of Richmond say upon that subject Hle says, 
GIBBS 11689 “From every day’s experience to the present hour, I am more and more convinced, that the restoring the right of voting universally to every man not incapacitated by nature for want of reason, or by law by the commission of crimes, together with annual elections, is the only retorm that can be effectual and permanent: I am further convinced that it is the only reform that is practicable. 
GIBBS 11690 “ All other plans that are of a palliative nature, have: been found insufficient to interest and animate the body of the people, from whose earnestness alone any reform can be expected
GIBBS 11692 Now it is objected to Mr. Hardy, that ths idea of the corruption of the House of Com Mons; corruption proceeding from sn mproper representation there—that this idea of referming parliament by annual election, 's all pretext. What foundation is there fr that, when you have heard from twenty wit nesses im the cause, that Mr. Hardy has over and over again said, he forms himself upor the: duke of Richmond’s plan, which be wishes to be carried into execution ; that tht is his only object; and when this, which ke pretences in all his letters, which appears in fact the object he is pursuing, 3s, it terms, the reform which the duke ef Richmond by a publication recommends to tte people to ban ? hen, gentlemen, we have got this length 
GIBBS 11693 —that the corruption of parliament is pots thought of Mr. Hardy’s—that the cause of that corruption is net a thought of Mr. Hady’s—that the means by which that comuption might be remedied is not a thought of Mr. Hardy's; they are all the thoughts of the duke of Richmond, supported by these ret sons which you heard read while his gree was in court.—I have stated to you what the immediate means were—annual parliaments, and universal suffrage—The next thing be considered is, how that reform was tobe effected.—Mr. Hardy thinks—but that is ss to be pretext—that it may be effected, and he meant to effect it, by a convention of the peo le, and by collecting the sense of the peope rom that convention.—What does the dake of Richmond say upon that subject
GIBBS 11695  ne that it is fromthe people at large only that he expects it will be obtained, how is this man at the bar to understand the duke of Richmond
GIBBS 11697 ; at large the duke of Richmond ex hopes aM a at ts this reform—he does not expect it from the parliament—he knows the parliament will not t it? but he expects it from the people
GIBBS 11699 hen the people must have some lawful means of promoting it
GIBBS 11701 ‘ mond could never mean that ; but he expected this refurm from the people at large, because he hoped that they would declare publicly what their wishes were, and that those wishes being communicated to the House of Commons, would produce the reform which he wished to see effected. 
GIBBS 11702 Gentlemen, I think this ie fair reasoning ; I think this must be the construction which 
GIBBS 11703 ‘ou will put upon the duke of Richmond's tter: It cannot be said that a man possessing so enlightened a mind, and holding sucha rank in the state, as the noble duke, meant by this letter to colonel Sharman, to incite the people to take up arms against their government, and to enforce that which would otherwise be denied to them. He must be understood, therefore, to have -expected that the people at large, by-their opinions being collected, and those opinions being communicated to the legislature, would produce that reform for which be was so zealous au ad
GIBBS 11704 ‘vocate, 
GIBBS 11705 What, then, has deen the conduct of the prisoner, as testified by every part of the evidence in this cause
GIBBS 11707 Gentlemen, it is a principle, I. think, in the English law, that, when the act-of a man is indifferent or doubtful, it should rather be attributed to an innocent than a guilty motive, —And I hope that we have not lost sight of another principle by which English juries have always been governed ; namely, that if the act of a man be in itself indifferent, and there be evidence, some having a tendency to show it criminal, and some innocent, if the former does not most clearly overweigh the latter, humanity will turn the scale in favour of innocence, 
GIBBS 11708 With respect to this act of calling a convention, it being in its nature an innocent act, you heard read a protest of several learncd, peers upon a motion that was made in the House of Lords during the pressure of the American waz, when the burthens which that war produced were felt heavily by the subject. Lord Shelburne made a motion in the [louse of Lords, the ultimate object of which was to decrease those burthens; the immediate object was, that a committee should be called, consisting neither of placemen nor of pensioners, to inquire what unnecessary expenses arose in the public expenditure—what unnecessary places existed — what unnecessary ensions had been granted —and to inquire ow that expenditure might be lessened. 
GIBBS 11709 After a long debate, the motion was negatived ; but those who were in the minority, if they were weighed not by their number but by their merits, would be called a majority: There was at their head the venerable and learned earl Camden, as great a constitutional lawyer as this country has ever seen, and as firm a supporter of its constitution
GIBBS 11711 “ We are further impelled to press this motion, because the object of it has been secunded and called for by a considerable majority of the people, who are associating for is purpose, and seem determined to pursue 
GIBBS 11712 4 by every legal and constitutional method that can be devised for its success
GIBBS 11714 Then this learned and noble lord asserts the collecting the sense of the people at large to be the object of the associations of the people; that the object of those associations is, to communicate te the whole body of the representatives what are the opinions of the whole body of their constituents
GIBBS 11716 Gentlemen, is that illegal to which lord Camden, so great a lawyer, gives such an effect, when he states, that petitions offered by the general associations of the people, ought to be attended toby the House of Commons, and that it is inconsistent with their wisdom to reject them? Does not he, by this protest, hold out to the public, that, when separate petitions are rejected, the object of which is thought conducive to the public good, it is the right of the people to associate for that public good, and, being associated, to present such petitions as lord Camden tells them are not likely to be rejected? 
GIBBS 11717 “It is admitted that the House of Con. mons have a power to vote as they think f, but it is not possible to conceive that so wae an assembly will ever be rash enough tore ject such petitions, and by that means cane this dangerous question to be broached ad agitated whether they have not broke they trust? The voice of the people will certainly be complied with; ministers may, as they seen to have done in a recent instance, departany man of what he holds, at their pleasur, for presuming to exercise his undoubted ngt! of thinking for himself on these and o public subjects, but it will not be wis a them to treat these associations with ce. tempt, or call them by the invidious name a faction, a name by which the minority of both Houses of Parliament have been so iruently and s0 falsely calumniated, becas: the name sd applied, will recoil back ups themselves, when acting against the gener! sense of the nation, nor will they be able represent these numbers, so respectable a rank and property, as they did but too succesfully the discontented Americans, as a mb of indigent and seditious incendiaries, becaxe the people to whom this is addressed, are the very people that are abused, and every ma bears within himself the testimony of i falsehood. .. 
GIBBS 11718 Gentlemen, my reason for bringing forward this protest to you is, that you may seeit has been the opinion of great and enlighened men in this country, that associations of the people for the purpose of obtaining that which they conceive to be a redress of 3 national grievance, are not only lawful bit commendable ; for if they were only strictly lawful, and were not commendable, we s! not see the names ef such men as we doaat the bottom of this protest, publicly decar ing, that, because this appeared to be the voice of the people collected in their assoc tions, therefore it was incensistent with tbe wisdom of the House of Commons to rejed the prayer of these petitions. a 
GIBBS 11719 Now, gentlemen, if this be so—if this man at the bar has always acted upon the dake of Richmond’s plan—if the duke of Richmol has conianily pointed out to him ip all bs publications (it is not necessary for me Into more than that which I have stated) tha there exists this corruption in the state, may be remedied by these means—that th people have a right to act for themselves a the way I have stated ; if it be the opin men so eminent as those, whose nsmes Yo haye heard are at the bottom of this proiesy that associations of this sort ought to be tended to, how is the prisoner implicated ia any guilt charged upon him in this ment? Recollect the principle whieh I bere stated, and which cannot, I am sure, F that if you can attribute his actions to 2 BS Motive, you ought not to ascribe to a criminal one—I defy any man SY: that. there is direct proof, pesoom that the prepared any force for pad ya this convention ; and then if you find he ries constant} 
GIBBS 11720 declared that he followed plans of a dif3 ferent nature, if you find that general associations for such a purpose are lawful, how can you say, that he who projected only the calling a convention, for the purpose of parkamentary reform—who states, that it was for the purpose of takin: 
GIBBS 11721 into consideration the proper modes for obtaining a full and fair representation of the people
GIBBS 11723 —against the doctrine laid down in this protest, that associations for this purpose are legal and constitutional? How can you presume against all this, that his conduct was 
GIBBS 11724 Not legal and constitutional, though he always professed to follow the examples of men who acted legally and constitutionally ; though he professes in his resolutions to follow them only by legal and constitutional means? How can you presume that he had that illegal intent which the indictment charges him with, namely, that he called this convention for the purpose, by force of arms, of deposing the king, and putting him to death; that would not be a charitable conclusion — it would not be a conclusion to which Englishmen have ever upon such evidence arrived, and I am sure therefore that it will not be yours. 
GIBBS 11725 Let me suppose for a moment, that that noble person who has given his evidence in this cause, could descend from his high station, and become the advocate of this prisoner. What would he have had to say in his defence? would he not say, “ Look to the ay of this; it was my plan, he is my disaple, he has followed my doctrine, he has pend my principles by the means which pointed out to him; I told the public that annual parliaments and universal suffrage, was the only reform to be introduced into the House of Commons, which would remove the grievances under which we labour —J told the public, that they had a right to assemble, and to make their voice heard in the House of Commons; I not only told the public this at the time when I brought forward my motion, but I left with the public the reasons which induced me to form this Opinion, and these reasons have since been Operating upon the mind of this man at the bar—his sins, if he has sinned, are upon my head; if he has been misled, he has been misled by me, he has pursued the same object, by the same means; but (it is said) he’ 
GIBBS 11726 has used harsh language, he has entered into Improvident resolutions. Why he may; he 18 an ignorant man; his resolutions may have been improvident; may have been rash; may have been illegal; his language may have been so—but when I have af him to this; when I gave him the principle; when his end is the same as mine; when the means he uses are the same: namely, by the intervention of the Peon 3 a little indiscretion ; a little violence of language, and even a little illegality, is to be excused in a man in his situation. 
GIBBS 11727 “ I have high rank in the state; I have the advantages of great abilities ; t industry ; education; experience; knowledge; and an enlightened mind to direct me; I used them all, endeavouring to lead my judgment to a true conclusion, upon what was really salutary to the public upon this subject; they led me to conclude, that annual parliaments and universal suffrage, were the only means by which the public could be saved ; and led me also to conclude, that the people had a right to annual parliaments and universal suffrage ; and that if the House of Commons did net grant them upon private petitions, that to the people was the proper appeal, and the people would then make their own voice heard the House of Commons; this I told the poor man ; he learned it from me; he has not my advan ; with all these advantages I entertained the opinion which this man, who has none of them, following me entertains; he has on his side nothing but i ces it is not wonderful that he should have beenconvinced by the reasons whieh I published, and which induced me to entertain this opinion of a convention of the people, nothin on the other side ‘having been published, which could come into his hand: therefore surely it is reasonable to expect that you will presume he has acted bone fide. 
GIBBS 11728 “ But he has gone greater lengths than I have; well, that ma excused in him; he is an ignorant man, he has not the advantages Thave; he has not had the advice I might have to follow; he has met, too, with greater prsroctions than I ever met with; J had a rge train of followers in the House of Lords; the propositions which I brought forward, were never rejected with disdain end contumely; I had never the provocation that this man has had from the treatment that he has received ; I will not inquire whether the. provocation be well or ill founded, but it is still provocation which a eommon mind was likely to be moved by. 
GIBBS 11729 Gentlemen, these are the lope which the duke of Richmond himself, if he could be placed in my situation, and argue the case of the prisoner, would urge to you; but if he felt for a moment that this man’s life was in danger, his blood would eurdle in his veins; he would shudder at the mischiefs produced by his publication, and wish in vain to recall it; he would implore you upon his knees, not to find any guilt in Mr. Hardy, that you would not be ready to find in him; he would tell yor that the prisoner has done neing which is not imputable to him, nothing whic! he would not have done himself; his principles are the same, his objects the same ; that the means of attaining these objects avowed by him, and proved in this cause, are, tention you will pay te his lordship, when te the same; nota single expression has been| comes to sum up, for distinguishing bow proved upon Mr. Hardy, tending a different way, and surely, gentlemen, it is a great excuse for a man in the situation oflife in which the prisoner stands, to urge that he followed the same object which the duke of Richmond points out by the same means: I say by the same means, because it is not proved by that plain direct and manifest proof which the statute calls for, and which lord Coke says is tequired, that he has used any other; then penn me to add that the circumstance of his ing always avowed an adherence to the plan of the duke of Richmond, ought to lead you to a conclusion that in this case he mean Rot to go beyond it1. 
GIBBS 11730 Gentlemen, what I have troubled you with hitherto, is chiefly upon the general evidence of the plan that has been laid before you. 
GIBBS 11731 Gentlemen, you collected from an argument which we had in the early part of this cause, that none of the evidence admitted in it, which is not brought personally home to Mr. Hardy, ought at all to affect him, otherwise than as it it may prove (which was the object of it) a general conspiracy in the coun‘try to call together a convention, which was to be supported by force against the government; with that view nine-tenths of the evidence that has been read was admitted, and with that view only; and it was stated by the Court, that Mr. Hardy was not to be affected by any of that evidence, any farther than he might be proved afterwards to be engaged in that plot, and to the extent only that he was proved to be engaged init; namely, in the plot of calling together a convention for the purpose of attaining their end against the government, by force of arms, re is proof enough to show that Mr. Hardy did mean that a convention should be called; he certainly did, and I do not dispute it, but the question for you will be, whether Mr. Hardy, the individual standing at your bar, did in his mind intend that that convention should act by force against the government. 
GIBBS 11732 Now, gentlemen, wish it-were within the compass of my ability to have separated the evidence, and to have laid distinctly before you, what evidence does apply to Mr. Hardy, upon this point.. I admit that his case refe it. Iadmit that his counsel ought to lo it; and I have but one excuse for not doing it, which is, that to the reach of my ability, the thing was impossible; though I have had the accidental leisure of a Sunday to look into the papers 5 yet from not having a copy of a third part of the letters that have been produced in evidence, except those which are in the report (and I do not mean to blame any one thatI have them not) though I endeavoured to do it. I wasted a considerable pore tion of my time, and I found it, at last, absolutely impracticable. I must, therefore, leave itto you. I trust to your recollection, to the notes which you have taken, and to the atmuch of this affects Mr. Hardy. In my4prehension, none of it goes to show, that m is mind, there existed a design of effecting s pert in the parliamentary representatioc, yy force. 
GIBBS 11733 You observe, gentlemen, that, in the forms part of my argument, I contended, that thee existed no such design; if there did, whet is another fae of my argument, there is 2 colour for fixing any thing, as it seems to me, ‘apon Mr. ly, the prisoner. gentlemen, it is in evidence to you, that Mr. Hardy bas never been without a spy at his elbow for the last two years, from the year 1792 tll the time that he was apprehended ; he bas never been at any meeting, he has never been with any assembly of friends at which there wa not present some person who has carried the ears of government every thing that wis said, by every person, at these meetings. Is it not singular then, that with the disposition which these men had to produce a reform (3 I admit they had) that not one single expr sion, upon any occasion, is proved to bare dropped from the mouth of Hardy, showing disrespect either to the King, oy to the Lords? But I would not rely much upon that : Isit not aleo singular, that not even an hasty epressions nut an accidental word, has ever fallen from him, to show, that it ever was if his contemplesis to use force for any pupose? And is it possible, that if he had conceived in his mind a design of carrying the project of that convention by force, walt as he has been, with spies constantly about him, some unguarded word should not at some time or other, have fallen from him, indicating, that be had entertained such an intention’ You will observe, that though it is 8 pat of bid evi enes of the crown to show fe Sie lot, and, for that purpose, they have jor general avnletins, vas you have another uestion to try; you are to say, notonly whe ther there was any such plot; but, if ther was, whether Hardy was an actor in it, embraced, in his mind, all its criminal views? For you are trying his intentions in calling this convention, whether it was the object o! his mind, that, when called, it should act by force? No matter who meant it, if be not; if that was not the intention of Mr. Hardy, you cannot find him guilty ; andi it was his intention, I do think it utterly impo sible, that going into the history of his lie for two years, going into every aet of it, tending him at every meeting that be ee attended, with spies whose ears were one upon all occasions, it is utterly impossible ad think, that some expression, some gus! word, should not have fallen from him sm ing that this was his intention. No such is proved to have fallen from him; 00 ression from which it can be presumed, be entertained such an idea. Is this en ding to the cofumon course of human «io 
GIBBS 11734 Does the hisfory 6f human life furnish you with a single instance of a man, having a certain plan in his mind, for two years together, meeting persons, with whom he is supposed to have been associated for the purpose of carrying that plan into execution, conversing with them upon the subject which would naturally lead to it, with the utmost freedom,— Supposing himself not watched; supposing himself to be talking with men, in whom he might repose the most certain confidence; do you find any instance, in the history of human nature, that a man the most artful and wily, through the course of two whole years, has never in confidence dropt an expression, showing he entertained that design which was lurking in his heart? Does the history ef human nature furnish you with such an instance? And, if it docs not, surely your humanity, your good nature will lead you to say, that it bas not existed, for the first time, in this unfortunate man at the bar. Gentlemen, you are trying an act of his mind; you are trying whether it was Ais intention to compass this end by force; if it were not, whether such was the intention of any other person is immaterial. Then, if he has never suffered to escape from him an expression, feom which that can be collected; if all that has fallen from his lips, for the last two years, ‘bas been communicated to those who accuse him, being, as he supposed himself always to be, in company with friends andconfidents, when he was in company with spies, surely it is too hard to say, that he entertained in his mind, during all this time, a project, fconcerning which he never uttered a syllable, even to those with whom it is pretended that he conspired ; that is too much for human credulity to give faith to. , If Mr. Hardy were a man of profligate man‘Bers and dissipated life; if he were a man likely, from the tenor of his conduct, to rush into a plan of this sort; if I could presume, from his general habits, that he was disposed to entertainand to pursue violent objects, by Violent means, there might be something in this case. But you have heard the character that has been given of him; I think I never heard so universal and complete a character iven by 90 many persons, of an individual in is situation, in my life. All sorts of persons have been called to you ; his neighbours ; his friends; those with whom he fived in intiMacy; those of the same business with himself; some his countrymen ; some not; all of them, concur in saying, that he isa man of the most amiable disposition, and respectable character; that he is a man of the most peaceable mind; that he is the last man in the world whom they should ever think capable of entertaining such a project as is now imputed to him.‘The minister whom he attends has been called; he not only says, that his conduct in life has been exemplary, his manners amiable 
GIBBS 11735 4nd peaceable, but he tells you, that conversing with him upon political subject, he enSeatourel to draw fear him what his object was, and the means by which he meant to attain that object; that he always told him, it was parliamentary reform, upon the duke of Richmond’s plan, and that the means by which he meant to obtain that object were peaceable. You observe, that these witnesses whom we called to his character, were not all eople of his way of thinking, but that some fad differed with him in politics. I believe that is in evidence. I know, however, the fact tobe so. They all concurred in saying, that, during all the time they have known him, some for twenty years, his masters whom he served, all concurred in saying, a better character never belonged to man. 
GIBBS 11736 Gentlemen, this is a case in which, of all others, a Pane character ought to weigh; because this is a case in which you are trying the act of the prisoner’s mind; in which you are trying, whether he had conspired with others to pull down this government by torce? Whether he was ready to take arms in his own hand, and attack the established powers of the country? That is the question you are to try; and, if you find any thing short of that; if youdo not find that it was the design of Mr. Hardy to attack the government by force, through the means of a convention, it is impossible you should find him guilty. 
GIBBS 11737 Then, gentlemen, surely this character ought to weigh; surely a man of such peaceable manners as belong to him, ought not lightly to be presumed capable of such an act; and when you add, too, that his conduct has been most diligently scrutinized, for two years, ina manner which no man could be aware of; when you find, that they are acquainted with every thought of his mind, that has found expression by his tongue, and that no word has ever fallen from him indicating a criminal intention, it is not too much to expect you to say, that, whatever other men may have intended upon this subject, he had not those views which are imputed to him, and therefore ought to have your verdict in his favour. 
GIBBS 11738 Gentlemen, let me remind you again of what the point is which you have to try; it is, whether Mr. Hardy, at the time he cont curred in the resolution for calling this cone vention, did himself personally mean, that the convention, being called, should act by force of arms against the government? That is the joint which you have to try
ERSKINE 12196 I shall net express my own sentiment, because the attorney general has expressed my sentiment completely
