EYRE 910 Was there any secretary to the division 
EYRE 912 And it was there that Hardy acted, was it
EYRE 914 Where was it that he acted
EYRE 916 Do you mean that that was a meeting of the division or of the delegates 
EYRE 922 Was that a division meeting, or what
EYRE 924 “ Address of the London Corresponding Society to the other Societies of Great Britain, united for the obtaining a reform in parliament. , 
EYRE 925 “ Friends and Fellow Countrymen; Unless we are greatly deceived, the time is approaching when the object for which we struggle is likely to come within our reach. That a nation like Britain should be free, it is requisite only that Britons should will it, to So. That such should be their will, the abuses of our original constitution, and the alarm of our aristocratic enemies, sufficiently witness. Confident in the purity of our motives, and in the justice of our cause, let us meet falsehood with proofs, and hypocrisy with plainness, let us persevere in declaring our principles, and misrepresentation will meet its due reward—contempt. 
EYRE 926 “In this view, the artifices of a late aristocratic association, formed on the 20th instant, call for a few remarks, on account ef the declaration they have published relative to other clubs and societies formed in this nation. It is true that this meeting of gentlemen (for so they style themselves) have mentioned no names, instanced no facts, quoted no authoTities ; but they take upon themselves to assert, that bodies of their countrymen have been associated, professing opinions favourable to the rights of man, to liberty, and equality ; and, moreover, that those opinions are conveyed in the terms, no King, no Parliament
EYRE 928 “ If this be intended to include the societies to which we respectively belong, we here, in the most solemn manner, deny thelatter part of the charge; while, in admitting the former, we claim the privilege and glory in the character of Britons; whoever shall attribute te us, who wish only the restoration of the lost liberties of our country, the expressions of Ne King, No Parliament, or any design of invading the property of other men, is guilty of a e Mis an impudent, and a malicious falseood. 
EYRE 929 “We know, and are sensible, that the wages of every man arc his right; that difference of strength, of talents, and of industry, do, and ought to afford proportional distinctions of property, which when acquired and confirmed by the laws, is sacred and inviolable; we defy the most slavish and malevolent man in the meeting of the 20th instant, to bring the remotest proof to the contrary. If there be no proof, we call upon them to justify an insidious calumny, which seems invented only to terrify independent Britons from reclaiming the rightful constitution of their country. We adinit, and we declare, that we are friends to civil liberty, and therefore to natural equality, both of which we consider as the rights of mankind, Could we believe them to be ‘in direct opposition “ to the laws of this land,’ we should blush to find ourselves among the number of its inhabitants; but we are persuaded that the abuses of the constitution will never pass current for its true principles; since we are told in its first charter, that all are equal in the sight of the law, whichshall neither be sold, nor refused, nor delayed, to any freeman what“ soever ;’ should it ever happen that ‘ right and justice’ are apposed by expense, by refusal, or by delay, then is this principle of equality violated, and we are no longer free men. 
EYRE 930 “ Such are our notions of those rights which it is boldly maintained ‘ are inconsis“ tent with the well being of society.’ But let us not suffer men who avow no principles of liberty, whose favourite cry is inequality of Property, to estrange others of our countrymen from aiding us in serving the community, and from recovering to the nation that share of its:sovereignty which has unhappily been sacrificed to corrupt courtiers and intriguing boroughmongers. 
EYRE 931 “ Ifour laws and constitution be just and wise in their origin and their principle, every deviation from them as first established, must be injurious to the people, whose persons and property were then secured; if at the revolution this country was adequately represented, it is now so no longer, and therefore calls aloud for reform. 
EYRE 932 “ If it be true that the people of Britain are superior to other nations, is it that our taxes are less burthensome? or that our provisions are less expensive? is it from the various productions of our svil that we are rich? is it owing to the majority of our numbers that we are strong? Certainly not. France has the advantage in all these respects, and, up to this period, she has never Been our superior in wealth, in power, in talents, or in virtues. But let us not deceive ourselves, the diffcrence between us and that nation was formerly, that our monarchy was limited, while theirs was absolute; that the number of our aristocracy did not equal the thousandth part of theirs; that we bad trial by jury, while they had none; that our persons were protected by the laws, while their lives were at the mercy of every titled individual: we therefore had that to fight for which to them wasunknown; since we were men while they were slaves. 
EYRE 933 “¢ The scene indeed has changed; like our brave ancestors of the last ccntury, they have driven out the family that would have destroyed them; they have scattered the mercenaries who invaded their freedom, and have ‘ broken their chains on the heads of their oppressors.’ If during this conflict with military assassins and domestic traitors, cruelty and revenge have arisen among a few inhabitants of the capital let us lament these effects of a bloody and tyrannous manifesto, but let us Icave to the hypocrite pretenders to humanity, the task of blackening the misfortune, and attributing to whole nation the act of an enraged popuace. 
EYRE 934 “ As we have never yet been cast so low at the foot of despotism, so it is not requisite that we should appeal to the same awful tribunal with our Petiren on the continent. May our enmities be written in sand, but may our rights be engraven on marble! We de sire tu overthrow no property but what has been raised on the rums of our liberty: we look with reverence on the landed and commercial interests of our country, but we view with abhorrence that monopoly of burgage tenures, unwarranted by law or reason in this or any other nation in Europe. 
EYRE 935 “ Let us then continue with pleasure and firmness in the path which is begun; let us then wait and watch the ensuing sessions of ppulanceng, from whom we have much to nope, and little to fear. ‘The House of Commons may have been thd source of our calamity, it may prove that of our deliverance. Should it not, we trust we shall not prove unworthy of our forefathers, whose exertions in the cause of mankind so well deserve our imitation. 
EYRE 936 (Signed) Maurice Marcarot, chairman, 
EYRE 937 Thomas Harpy, secretary. London, 29th Nov, 1792. 
EYRE 990 What is your own judgment as to the course we ought to pursue? Mr. Attorney General, have you nearly concluded your evidence ? 
EYRE 993 As to what is now hinted at, itis matter of very great importance to the public justice of the country In every view of it. It is undoubtedly a general rule, that there is to be no adjournment and no separation of the jury after the evidence is entered upon, until the jury bave. given their verdict. That is a rule which I shall never willingly depart from, nor ever consent to depart from but ina case of extreme necessity, and where therefore the necessity of the case will justify a deviation from the strict rule of law. 
EYRE 994 I think the necessity does exist in every case in which it shal! appear that the cause wil] go into such a length that the attention of a jury cannot be kept alive to it throughout, without the assistance of some refreshment ; and where, from that length, they cannot have that assistance from the Court, which by law they are entitled to have; provided that necessity, therefore, is apparent in this case, I should certainly readily incline to enter intoa consideration of the qucstion, whether we can, and, if we can, whether we ouglit to adjourn ; and in what way it may be done. 
EYRE 995 I know that, in point of fact, there was anadjournmentin onecriminal case: but that was a misdemeanor : there was a doubt started whe“ther in that case, though the court adjourned, the jury should not be kept together. I have not been able to learn with any certainty what the fact was; but there is one circumstance from whence I do conclude that, in truth, the jury could not have been kept together during the whole of that time, because the adjournment thcre was over an entire day at two different times in the course of the hearing of that cause ; and I have no imagination that the jury were kept together during all that time, unless the adjournment oeerihe day was only for a few hours; but it is s0 long ago, that few people remember how it was; I conceive that, under that adjournment, the jury must have becn allowed to separate. 
EYRE 996 I am not satisfied that, in strict law, there is a clear distinction between the case of allowing a jury to separate in a misdemeanor and ma capital case. I believe the rule of lew is the same; and I am inclined to think that the strict rule was, that, even ina civil case, the jury could not separate after the ease was once gone into. 
EYRE 997 In the 14 Harry 7th, there was a question debated in the Exchequer Chamber (is in the year book) upon the effect of the jury having, in consequence of a violent storm to which they were exposed, separated for a time; they afterwards returned again, and delivered their verdict. But the principal doubt that arose in that case, was the circumstance of a juryman having taken some yefreshment from the hand of a friend of one of the parties; however, that question never was decided; and I do not know that there is any other case in which the question has been much considered : therefore, if the counsel for the prisoner make the application to the court upon the ground of a necessity interesting to the prisoner, andif the counsel for the prosecution consent to that application upon such grounds as are proper to influence the jadgmentof the prosecutor, it seems to me in some way or other, it would be right that an adjournment should take place. I showki have no difficulty with regard to the Court; the difficulty that occurs to my mind is with segard to the separation of the jury. ularly, and properly, and agreeably to the ancient course, the jury ought to be kept toether. 
EYRE 998 e There are a great number of civil cases in the old books where the jury could not agree, or something happened in the course of the cause that made it necessary for the Court to be consulted before the cause could proceed. The practice was where the jury was sent for from the country to Westminster-hall, there a hostel was provided for them, and they were always sent back to their hostel: there they were attended by an officer, and kept mm all communication: but modern times have totally changed the habits of business, and there are hardly any traces of that now left, and that sort of thing is impracticable. 
EYRE 999 I made some inquiry what might be done (the subject, you see, was not totally out of my thoughts) if it should so happen that the necessites of public justice should extort from us a departure from the general rule: and the sherills, who have been always disposed to do what is right for them to do, and to give us all the assistance that is possible, did promise that they would endeavour to accommodate the jury in this house: whether that can be done, or whether we can depart even from that strictness, and suffer the jury 0 go to their own houses, upon the application of the prisoner and the consent of the poses, taking their word of honour that they would have no communication with any body upon the subject of this cause; that is a question upon which i should much wish to hear what my brothers have to say, after asking the uestion again of the sheritl, what caa be one here? 
EYRE 1001 itis a distressing thing to put the jury into these circum stances, which I should be sorry for, but it is better than sitting up for three days and two nights, which, for any thing I can see, must be the case. I am very ready to take my share of the fatigue, but my apprehension is, that the cause cannot be so effectually tned as it would be if the Court and jury had the refreshment of food and rest. 
EYRE 1003 I think it is not simply that he may give that ind I think he must ask it as necessary to his defence. 
EYRE 1009 If the jury live at a great distance, they might rather choose to sleep here. e 
EYRE 1014 Do you think you are able to go on all night? if you do go on all night we shall make but a certain progress, and I am afraid we shall be in no condition to pursue our business to-morrow. 
EYRE 1017 The rule of law is clear beyond all doubt; at the same time, the necessity of public justice arises distinctl. and visibly, and is felt by all mankind: i my apprehension, that will justify a departure from the strict rule, but it will only justify that departure as far as the necessity goes, and there the difficulty is: but, to be sure, if the jury can be accommodated, and can have that refreshment which is necessary to go on, without separating, then the necessity have been speaking of does not carry them through the whole case of being allowed to separate. As there is nu doubt in any body’s mind about it, we must‘desire the sheritls to give the jury all the accommodation they can furnish them with, and we must desire of them to submit to a difficulty which I am very sorry is imposed upon them, but which I do not see any means of avoiding. Bailiffs must be sworn to attend the jury. The counsel for the prisoner will observe, that the recorg mutt be made up as of the first day of the trial. 
EYRE 1020 We. shall certainly be disposed to give the counsel for the prisoner all reasonable opportunity to make the best defence the nature of the case is capable of. I observe the greater number of papers that have been read, and the most important as yet, are papers that are printed, and before us, therefore, there can be no difficulty as to them, for I have no doubt that the printed papers have been very well considered—To-morrow we shall see what the papers will be; if there are any which appear to us, or shall appear to you, to be papers that require a careful casting your eye over before you prepare for your defence, I shall certainly propose to the Sour that you su have a reasonable opportunity for so loing. 
EYRE 1023 I do not think it possible for the Court to have interfered upon any ground. It is one thing to permit the prisoner to see the evidence that is to be made use of against him, and it is another thing, if it should so happen, that in the seizing of his papers, there arg papers not fit to be made use of against him, but that are necessary for his defence, that such papers should have been seen; in that case, I apprehend that upon an application to the privy council or the secretary of state, that they would do what public justice requires—order access to such pas pers. The papers which are to be produced y the prosecutor, a prisoner never has by law, nor ought to have an opportunity of examine ing till they are produced in evidence. Papers that are not necessary for the prosecution, ut necessary for his defence, come under a very different predicament, and I think the rule held upon them would be very different, 
EYRE 1025 If you asked to look at those papers which were intended to be produced against you, I do not think that was right. 
EYRE 1027 I believe we had better not discuss the thing now. 
EYRE 1055 A warrant was issued at my instance ; the papers found in his possession were put into two bags and sealed up; the bags were brought sealed from Skirving’s lodgings to the office where he was examined. 
EYRE 1056 Where were you at that time 
EYRE 1057 I was present in the office when he was examined. 
EYRE 1058 Then the first time you saw any thing of this paper was when it was produced at the office by a person we brought it in a sealed bag: is it so
EYRE 1059 Yes. 
EYRE 1062 Yes. 
EYRE 1063 He has proved, that upon a warrant having issued to apprehend Skirving, there was a sealed bag brought to the office ; Skirving was present, and that sealed bag was opened, and the letter was produced. 
EYRE 1064 Look at the signature to this paper; do you believe that to be the prisoner’s hand-writing
EYRE 1065 Yes, I believe Ut is, 
EYRE 1066 Do you know any of the other signatures
EYRE 1067 I do not. 
EYRE 1068 “ Articles of Instruction given to citizen Joseph Gerrald, delegate from the London Corresponding Socicty to the ensuing convention in Edinburgh, for the purpose of obtaining a thorough parliamentary reform. 
EYRE 1069 “ Ist. He shall on no account depart from the original object and principles of this 0 ciety, namely, the obtaining annual parliaments and universal suffrage by rational and lawful means. 
EYRE 1070 “end. He is directed to support the opinion, that. representatives in parliament ought to be paid by their constituents, 
EYRE 1071 “3rd. That the election of sheriffs ought to be restored to the people. 
EYRE 1072 “ ath, That jureseuakt to be chosen by lot. 
EYRE 1073 “6th. That active means ought to be used to make every man acquainted with the rights and duties of a juryman. 
EYRE 1074 “ 6th. That the liberty of the press must atall events be supported, and that the publication of political truths can never be criminal. 
EYRE 1075 “7th. That it is the duty of the people to Tesist any act of parliament repugnant to the original principles of the constitution, a5 would be every attempt to prohibit associations for the purpose of reform. 
EYRE 1076 “8th. That this society, considering all party names and distinctions as hostile to the general welfare, do absolutely restrict their elegate from assuming or accepting any thing of that nature. 
EYRE 1077 “9th. That this society further require, that the delegate shall be punctual and frequent in his correspondence with this society. Ro. Hopeson, chairman. 
EYRE 1078 Tuos. Harpy, secretary. 
EYRE 1079 “ General Meeting, 24th Oct. 1793. 
EYRE 1080 Instructions to citizen Gerrald, London Corresponding Society, No. 3. 
EYRE 1122 Were these papers found in the same manner as the other papers 
EYRE 1131 I take it for granted they mean to do that, because, otherwise, the proceedings of the convention at Edinburgh can be nothing in this cause. 
EYRE 1133 There is enough, in my opinion, to let in the evidence; the application of it is quite another censideration: this is the act of a body, to which this prisoner sent persons to act in his name; he may afterwards to be sure object that they exceeded their commission, and therefore they are personally responsible; but I think that will be observation upon the evidence, it is no objection to the evidence. 
EYRE 1136 It is agreed to be read, subject to the observations that may arise upon it. tion were ordered to stand last on their Minutes, but which, in fact, had never been incorporated into the original document. The “ Declaration and Resolutions will be found in the indictment 885.] . 
EYRE 1180 That is what I was going to observe, the insisting on one ide, and objecting on the other, is perfectly Premature, for not knowing what the contents of the paper are, the Court cannot judge whether it is a branch of the evidence of the general conspiracy, or something personal with which the prisoner has nothing to do. 
EYRE 1183 tIt is necessary in order for the Court to judge whether it is of the tendency you describe, to open to us tbat part of the paper which you say has that tendency. I have cast my eye over the paper, and I see that there is a passage in it which does go to the general object. 
EYRE 1188 This purports to be a paper containing a resolution at a general meeting of the London Corresponding Society, held at the Globe tavern; it is brought to the printer by one of the members of that society, the prisoner being another member of that society, acting in that society as the secretary; then they being both involved therefore in the proceedings of that society, and this being a printed paper produced by one of them, it does seem to me that in a general charge of a conspiracy this is evidence to prove a circumstance in that conspiracy : whether it will be ultimately so brought home to the prisoner, Hardy, as that he should be responsible for the guilt of having published it, may be another consideration, but that it is a branch of the conspiracy, and a circumstance occurring in it, the import of the paper plainly proves. It does seem to me, theretore, that it is admissible. 
EYRE 1193 Whether it is two thousand, or what number, cannot be material, it is the publication of an act of this society. 
EYRE 1195 It applies to the society, as far as relates to the general transactions of that society, but as far as it may constitute individual guilt, which may be separated from the general guilt of the parties to the general plan, that is another consideration. 
EYRE 1375 Do they never admit visitors 
EYRE 1377 There are visitors spoken of 
EYRE 1397 I confess I have great doubt myself whether this evidence ought to be admitted. 1 agree, that where several persons are proved to be engaged ir one general conspiracy, that all the transactions of that conspiracy by the different parfies, may and ought to be given in evidence ; and it is enough if the party accused at this time can be proved to be-privy to that general conspiracy ; for if that is proved, every thin that is done by the different parties concern: in it, must be also imputed to him asa ah of the transaction of that conspiracy. I understand this letter, it is nothing more than Mr. Thelwall’s account to a private friend, of a part which he had taken respecting this paper, and of his having composed songs. And I remember another passage in it, which is very material as against Thelwall, but, in Ty mind, should be reserved till it comes to the time when Thelwall’s own declarations come to be proper evidence. 
EYRE 1398 I doubt whether we ought to consider this Racal letter as any thing more than Mr. 
EYRE 1399 helwall’s declaration; and Thelwall’s declaration ought not to be evidence of any thing which, si remotely connected with this plot, yet still does not amount to any transaction done in the course of the plot, for the furtherance of the plot, but is a mere recital of his, a sort of confession of his of some part that he had taken. It appearsto me, that that is not like the evidence which we before admitted of a fact done by Mr. Thelwall in carrying the papers and delivering them to the printer, which is a part of the transaction itself. His account of that transaction seems to me to stand quite upon a different footing. It seems just the same as an act which shall bind a man, because he is connected with the person that did the act; and his declaration, which shall not bind him, because it is no part of the act. 
EYRE 1402 To be sure, as far as the transmission of these papers go, it does stand upon another footing; but I should be sorry if the letter was to be read for so immaterial a purpose, as that is only to introduce something which in my mind ought not to be evidence in this case. 
EYRE 1408 After having heard my lord chief baron and my brothers upon it, I really am of opinion thatt is too questionable to received as evidence, except upon the ground last stated by Mr. Garrow, upon which (if he insists on it) it must be received. 
EYRE 1410 In the cases of Dammarce and lord George Gordon, the cry of the mob at the time made a part of the fact, of the transaction, therefore I have no doubt that such evidence ought to be received ; but I confess I have so great a doubt upon the admissibility of this letter, that I prefer 
EYRE 1413 Correspondence Mid often makes a part of the transaction, and where correspondence makes a part of the transaction, the correspondence of one man who is a party in a conspiracy, would undoubtedly be evidence, correspondence in furtheranee of the plot: a correspondence of a private nature, a mere relation of what had been done, appears a different thing. 
EYRE 1429 Where was it found ? what is the fact? 
EYRE 1454 Be so good as state a little more particularly what that is. 
EYRE 1476 The interruption is not quite proper : because, if it were so, that my brother Adair had distinctly admitted it in that manner, yet that could not conclude the argument of another learned gentleman, if he was of opinion he could maintain it. 
EYRE 1479 No; only so 'y to inform the Court of the nature of it. 
EYRE 1484 The counsel is to open the nature of the evidence. 
EYRE 1490 I understand that this letter is not proved ever to have come to the hands of Margarot; you call ita letter; it is, in truth, merely a paper, in Martin’s hand-writing. 
EYRE 1506 This has e into a length of discussion ; butIblame nobody, as there was some differenoe of opinion in the Court upoa the former occasion ; therefore it required that this question should be more fully discussed. 
EYRE 1507 I agree with Mr. Bearcroft, that he has stated truly what the nature of this questian is; namely, that if this were merely a trial for a conspiracy, this would be evidence against one of the parties in that conspiracy, because the question, whether this prisoner is to be reached upon the apecific charge against him, is, undoubtedly, a question, whether he is to be reached -by that medium; aad if the medium is once established, that question arises, upon which I will say no more at presant. 
EYRE 1508 It is perfectly clear that in the case of a Conspiracy, the general evidence of she thing canspired is given in evidence, and then the party who is at present brought before a court of justice to answer for it is to be affected for his shase in it; the question then is, whether a paper under the hand of a person, who is proved to be one of the conspirators, shall be Teceived in evidence, where it ts nothing more ban a paper under his hand? For, as I take Ht, as this case stands, it is not a letter sent to Margarot. There is no preef that Margarot nd recerve any such agen pe aia it may be a paper merely writtem pri ly Martin, who is the person im whose hapdquestion This is of the nature of confession, and writing it is stated to be, and may never have gone out of his hands. The question is, wher ther under these circumstances such a paper is to be admitted in evidence, ina case in which another person pow stands at the bar; and, I confess, that this does not appear to me to be suffidently distinguished from the case which we just now determined, o satisfy my mand that it ought to be received in evidence. 
EYRE 1509 It is undoubtedly true, that the general plot is to be made out by proving the transactions of others, to which the prisoner at the bar may not be immediately a pers but thea, bow is itto be proved? Is it to be proved by the mere acknowledgment of theac other parties, end so made use of against the prisoner now at the bar? For instance, here isa conspiracy charged. Sup; & witness should come and say, J heard Thelwall sey that he was engaged i auch a cons| : and I heard Martin say he was engaged im such a conspiracy ; endIheard Margaret say he was engaged io mich a conspiracy. My present apprehension is, that that would be extremely good evidence personally against the parties, who said it to prove against them individually, that they were cnncerned in that conspiracy, but that it would be no evidence whatever agaiast third persons, a8 was the case on ford StaGord’s trial. A witness praved that he heard A. B. and C. converse upen the subject ofa conspiracy; that is a direct proof that ahese three persons conspired, and there the conversation of que is evidence against the ether, and so on; that is evidence of a transaction, a fact, not hear-say evidence; and not evidence of a party’s acknowledgment, oaly inasmuch as it is an acknowledg. ment by one in the presence of the others, they acquiescing, and therefore becomes distinct and proper evidence. Sut I have ala ways taken it that with regard to these persanal acknowledgments of having meant to in. citey—for that isthe nature of this letter—J have always taken it that that was proper evidence, if the party who was to be affected by it happened to stand at the bar to answer for it: but if another person was indicted by himself, that there could be no evidence received against that person, but the evideace of facts proved by the witnesses, who peeve the existence of the facts in regular evidence: confessional evidence is ad hominem only. Lfit happens that a matter of fact is evidence against A, by evidence of the truth of that fact, other thay the confession of A, that does also become evidence against B, from the circumstance of B being connected ee the plot, and B being bound by al! that A has done. But the course that has been observed in the Stade Trials that I have read, bas been that confessions have been made evidemes against the individuals only who confessed. Bow thing more; that has been considered as evi. dence only against the party, and is not te bo received where that party is not the person before the Court. 
EYRE 1518 Then now you will read it. 
EYRE 1603 I think this letter is iy a different situation from the other. It is a Jetter purporting to come from one of these societies ; it is addressed to the prisoner, and it is found in the hands of a person affected by the evidence, at least to involve him in this conspiracy. 
EYRE 1695 Who printed it
EYRE 1704 The rule of evidence requires that you should carry it farther. 
EYRE 1726 It is evidence to be left to the jury. 
EYRE 1728 When are we to take up that? If we-are ever to have it, we may as well have it now. 
EYRE 1901 It will not exse you to any hazard to say whether you appen to know how many copies were published. The witness ought not to, be asked how many he published himself. 
EYRE 1981 Unless he can speak from the type, or the intrinsic circumstances, it is nothing
EYRE 1991 Hitherto I do not observe, that you have laid a ground for asking any question about this book. 
EYRE 2152 Do not let us go into every particular of a transaction at that distance. 
EYRE 2156 The whole of it is, that there was a great tumult, a great slaughter, and that the king and his family sheltered themselves at the Convention, and were not restored to their liberty afterwards. 
EYRE 2238 I think it isa reasonable evidence of their being what they are described. 
EYRE 2239 (Mr. Huskisson ‘delivered into Court English Translations of Extracts from the said Papers.] 
EYRE 2263 It is hardly worth debating; the Purpose is so obvious, that it is impossible to be misunderstood. 
EYRE 2264 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown Anchor Tavern, Strand, Friday, 15th Februs ary, 1793, 
EYRE 2265 “ Present, “ Mr. Reader in the chair, “‘ Mr. Frost, Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Boaney, 
EYRE 2266 Mr. Symonds, Mr. Martin, Mr. Chatfield, Mr. Fitz id, Mr. Banks, Rev. Mr. Joyce Mr. J. Williams, Capt. T. Harwood, Mr. Moore, Mr. G. Williams, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Balmanno. 
EYRE 2267 “ Read the following letter from the Society for Constitutional Information, at Birmingham, requesting, that twelve of their members may be admitted associated members of this society. 
EYRE 2268 “ Birmingham, Feb. 6th, 1793. Friends and Fellow Citizens; The memhers of the Society for Constitutional Information, established at this place, Nov. 20th, 1792, take the opportunity to lay before you our printed Address and Declaration, and our rules and orders, which we have adopted from the Shefiield Society, for our intetual gos vernment,—And to show our justice, our moderation, and love to all mankind, we desire your advice and assistance, that the generalind of our society may be formed junani-mously to the best and most likely mode of obtaining our long-lost rights. as men, free born, and as citizens by universal incorpo-ration. 
EYRE 2269 “ The interested and bigotted supporters ofthe exploded system of corruption, are conainually throwing obstacles in the way of all reform,.and threaten us with rigarous prose-' cution, and exhibit all the engines of power and tyranny before us, far meeting to invesAigate the laws of our country, and endea‘vouring to obtain, in a legal and peaceable Manner, the birthright of every Briton, viz. an equal representation of the people in pardiament: notwithstanding which, numbers Gaily flock to the standard of liberty. We are Metarmined, in spite of all base opposition, to persevere as we have begun in the good cause, till we have obtained the desirable end, a redress of aur grievances. 
EYRE 2270 “ We gincerely think the cause is of God, and that it would go on without our interference ; but who can stand by an idle spectator, and see: our fellow-men struggling for us in the cause of liberty, and not have a wish to lend 4 helping hand in the humane and godlike work? 
EYRE 2271 “ We ardently and sincerely ‘desire to become instrumental in so good and great a work, the cause of liberty, and of all manikind, both present and future. , 
EYRE 2272 he grateful thanks of our society are given to Mr. Horne Tooke, major Cartwright, Mr. Erskine, and the rest of the members of the Constitutional Society for Information in London, for their frm and manly support and perseverance in oyr common cause of liberty and good-will to all mankind, and their steady purpose to obtain an effectual reform in the legislative house of the people, the Commons House of Parliament. 
EYRE 2273 “ Our society requests the favour of your admitting the following twelve persons, whose names are subscribed, to be inralled members of your society, for the purpose of corresponding with yours, and every other similar institution in the nation, for the better regulate ing our measures, and receiving instruction. 
EYRE 2274 “ Wishing you all the. sucess your laudaBe pavietea ne deserves, we are, with sin. cerity, your fellow citizens and friends, 
EYRE 2275 “ (Signed). “John Meer, “ John Kilmister,George Hill, sen, John Kenrick, James Davy, " Thomas Hill, “ James Luckcock, Benjamin Smith. 
EYRE 2276 Ditect to George Hill, opposite the Fountain, Lower Temple-street, or to John Kenrick, Grocer, Colmore- row. “ To Mr. D. Adams, Secretary to the Society for Constitutional Information. 
EYRE 2277 “ Resolved, That the twelve members of he Birmingham Society for Constitutional Jaformation, recommended in the said letter, be admitted assaciated members of this society. a 
EYRE 2278 “ Resolved, That the said letter, and the election of the said twelve members, be published in the newspapers, exclusive of their Names. ; 
EYRE 2343 You have given no evidence of the hand-writing of this paper. 
EYRE 2392 That is reasoning him into a belief; if he has any recollection upon the subject very well; ifhe has not you must not argue him into a belief of it. This is a paper which purports to be a rough draft of instructions, with considerable interlineations, and the paper that is in the book corresponds with the draught so interlined, there let it stand. Do you know the handwriting of the interlineations 
EYRE 2394 The Instructions read.] 
EYRE 2395 “ At an extraordinary general meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Monday, 28th October, 1793, 
EYRE 2396 “ PRESENT, “ Mr. Sinclair in the chair, 
EYRE 2397 “¢ Mr. Satchell, Mr. Martin, Mr. Special, Mr. Parkinson, Mr. J. T. Rutt, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Wills, Mr. Richter, Mr. J. Willams, Mr. Chatfield, Mr. Fawcett, Mr. Margarot, Mr. G. Williams, Mr. Wardle, Mr. Jennings, Mr. Holcroft, 
EYRE 2398 “ Read, addresses to the Friends of the People of parliamentary reform, signed by Mr. Skirving, secretary to the General Convention at Edinburgh. 
EYRE 2399 “ Resolved, That this society do send delegates to the ensuing convention, to be held in Edinburgh, for promoting a reform in parliament. 
EYRE 2400 “ Resolved, That two members of this society be elected as delegates to the said convention. 
EYRE 2401 “ Henry Yorke, Charles Sinclair, and John Richter, were penne 
EYRE 2402 “ Resolved That the said gentlemen be now ballotted for. The society proceeded to ballot accordingly, when Charles Sinclair, and Henry Yorke, were elected. 
EYRE 2403 “ Mr. Sinclair being ‘present accepted of the said office of one of the delegates. 
EYRE 2404 “ Resolved, That should either Henry Yorke, or Charles Sinclair, be prevented from accepting the delegation to the convention of delegates at Edinburgh, John Richter be appointed to fulfil that office. 
EYRE 2405 “Resolved, That John Williams be reuested to obtain the necessary information of enry Yorke, and communicate it to the secretary. ‘ 
EYRE 2406 “ Mr. Sinclair being requested to quit the chair, 
EYRE 2407 “ Resolved, That Mr. Fitzgerald be called to take the chair, 
EYRE 2408 “ Resolved, That the secretary do deliver to the delegates, appointed by this society to represent them in the convention at Edinburgh, copies of the proceedings of the 25th 
EYRE 2409 28th instant, by which they are appointed to that office. 
EYRE 2410 Instructions to the Delegates. 
EYRE 2411 “ The Delegates dre instructed, on the part of this society, to assist in bringing forward and supporting any constitutional measures for procuring a real representation of the Commons of Great Britain, in Parliament. That in specifying the redress to be demanded of existing abuses the delegates ought neverto lose sight of thetwo essential principles, general suffrage and annual representation, jogether with ’ 
EYRE 2412 the unalienable right inthe people to reform, and that a reasonable andknowncompensation ought to be made to the representatives of the nation, by a national contribution. 
EYRE 2413 That the delegates do Pusewsally correspond with the society, for the purpose of communicating information, and of receiving such farther instructions as the exigency may reuire. ar Resolved, That the above be the directions to the delegates. 
EYRE 2414 “ Resolved, That seven guiness be allowed to each of the delegates for travelling, and a sum not exceeding three guineas per week, each, be allowed them during the sitting of the convention of delegates, and that a subscription be now opened for that purpose, ie that the secretary be requested to receive same. 
EYRE 2415 “ Resolved, That the proceedings of Friday, the 25th, and Monday, 28th, October 1793, be signed by the chairman and secretary. 
EYRE 2416 “ Resolved, That the secretary be requested to write to the different societies with which this society is in Soren pncenee, informing them that the London Corresponding Society, together with this society, have el delegates to the convention of delegates, to meet at Edinburgh on the 29th inst. and to request their concurrence to this important measure. : 
EYRE 2417 [Mr. Garrow pointed out to the Court, the variations between the rough draught, and the instructions as finally adopted.) 
EYRE 2418 “ The delegates are instructed on the part of this society, to assist in bringing forward any petition or petitions to the House of Commons, for the purpose of procuring an inquiry in the said House, into the state of the representation of the Commons of Great Britain in parliament. That they shall also demand in such petition or petitions, a specific remedy for the past, present, and possible abuses, in the nt system of representation, and an avowal of the right of eternal reform. That in specifying the principles upon which redress ought to be demanded, the delegates have particular relation to those expressed in Mr. Pitt’s speeches, before he was a placeman: in the duke of Richmond’s letter to col. Sharman, before he was a minister ; in Mr. Flood’s bh, upon his motion for a reform in par
EYRE 2419 Lament ; but above all, in the constitutional strictures, contained in the defence of John 
EYRE 2420 Horne Tooke, at the suit of Charles James 
EYRE 2421 Fox, in an action for debt. And that the delegates do demand a ght of voting for members of parliament, in favour of all persons not infants, paupers, lunatics, placemen or pensioners. That voting ought to be only in the places or districts of te residence of the voter. That the time of election ought to be very short, and the collecting the votes be in as many different places im a district at once, asmay be conveniently and accurately taken; but above all, that the duration of parliament ought to be annual. And that a reasonable compensation ought tobe made bya national contribution to the members of the liament. ‘ 
EYRE 2422 hat the delegates do posctuslly correspond with the society, for the purpose of rerceiving farther instructions, as the exigency may require. 
EYRE 2423 “ Resolved, That these be the directions to the delegates. 
EYRE 2424 “ Adjourned to Friday next. 
EYRE 2425 “ Resolved, That the following be the directions, to the delegates : 
EYRE 2426 “ The delegates are instructed on the part of this society, to assist in bringing forward, and supporting any constitutional measures, for procuring a real representation of the Commons of Great Britain, in parliament. That they shall also demand a remedy for the abuses in the present system of representasion. That in specifying the redress to be demanded of existing abuses, the delegates ought never to lose sight of the two essential principles, general su and. annual representation, together with the unalienable nght in the people to reform. And that a reasonable and known compensation ought to be made to the representatives of the nation by a national contribution. 
EYRE 2427 ‘“ That the delegates do punctually correspond with the society, for the purpose of com municating information, and of receiving such farther instructions as the exigency may require. “ Adjourned to Friday next. : 
EYRE 2428 “ At a general meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, 17th of January, 1794, 
EYRE 2429 “¢ PRESENT, 
EYRE 2430 “ Mr. John Horne Tooke in the chair, “Mr. Sharp, Mr. Gerrald, count Zenobio, 
EYRE 2431 Mr. John Pearson, Mr. Wills, Mr. J. Williams, Dr. Edwards, Mr. Bonney, Mr. 
EYRE 2432 Chatfield, Mr. Harrison, Mr. John Martin, 
EYRE 2433 Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Stock, Mr. Satchell, 
EYRE 2434 Mr. Sinclair, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Banks, Mr. G. 
EYRE 2435 Williams, Mr. Wardle, Mr. Watts, Mr. 
EYRE 2436 Richter, 
EYRE 2437 “ Resolved, That law ceases to be an object of obedience whenever it becomes an instrument of oppression. , 
EYRE 2438 “ Resolved, That we recall to mind, with the deepest satisfaction, the merited fate of the infamous Jefferys, once lord chief’ justice of England, who at the era of the glorious revolution, for the many iniquitous sentences which he had passed, was torh to pieces by a byave and injured people. ns : 
EYRE 2439 “ Resolved, That those who imitate his example, deserve his fate. 
EYRE 2440 “Mr. Tooke having left the chair, Resolved, that Mr. Gerrald be called tu the chair. “Resolved, That the Tweed, though it may divide countries, ought not, and does not, make a separation between those principles of common severity, in which Englishmen and Scotchmen are equally interested ; that injustice in Scotland, is injustice in England, and that the safety of Englishmen is endangered, whenever their brethren, in Scotland, for a conduct which entitles them to the approbation of all wise, and the support of all brave men,:are sentenced to Botany Bay, a punishment hitherto inflicted only on felons. 
EYRE 2441 “ Resolved, That we see with regret, but we see without fear, that the period is fast approaching when the liberties of Britons must depend not upon reason, to which they have long appealed, nor on their powers of expressing it, but on their firm and undaunted resolution to oppose tyranny by the same means by which it is exerciscd. 
EYRE 2442 “ Resolved, That we approve of the conduct of the British Convention, who, though assailed by force, have not been answered by argument, and who, unlike the members of a certain assembly, have no interest distinct from the common body of the people. a 
EYRE 2443 “ Resolved, ‘That a copy of the above resodations be transmitted to citizen William Skirving, secretary to'the British Convention, who is now imprisoned under colour of law mn the Tolbooth of Edinburgh. 
EYRE 2444 “ Resttved, That the resolutions now passed be published in the newspapers. 
EYRE 2445 “ Resolved, That the resolutions now passed be signed by the chairman and secre-tary. 
EYRE 2849 It is not likely that he should have knowledge enough of the work to be able to answer the question; but if he could satisfy us that he knew that this book contained the identical words that were in the books that were commonly published under that title, to this purpose perhaps it might be evidence. 
EYRE 2851 If we could be Sure it was an exact copy of the same book it would be the same as the original; they are all copies. 
EYRE 2853 As that would refer merely to the contents of the book, it would be very good evidence of the cgntents. 
EYRE 2855 yYou certainly are, but whether he goes to the length of that is the question. 
EYRE 2857 But did he ever read it? 
EYRE 2859 Go on in yous own course, 5 
EYRE 2953 How was that to be brought about
EYRE 2959 When 
EYRE 2961 In your shop 
EYRE 2966 You had better hear how they propose to make it evidence. 
EYRE 2970 I cannot myself, imagine that those facts, which are so perfectly distinct from the particular subject of this indictment, can possibly implicate them so as to make theip publications evidence in this cause. 
EYRE 2972 You might read the whole, and then prove a resolution of the society for printing a part, because that proves them cognizant of it, having selected a part, 
EYRE 2974 Certainly not. 
EYRE 3067 How was that to be brought about
EYRE 3069 ‘! ment first, that was his exhortation. 
EYRE 3077 If he is proved to have been at any of the Corresponding Societies meetings. 
EYRE 3081 We is not an agent, but a party. 
EYRE 3106 By whom was that pike made 
EYRE 3145 Do you know how Widdison came by that 
EYRE 3257 Whathad Moody to do with pikes 2—He put handles, I believe, to three dozen. 
EYRE 3258 What length were the handles 
EYRE 3260 What length were the blades 
EYRE 3262 What shape were the blades
EYRE 3264 you mean they were fluted like a bayonet 
EYRE 3798  How is that evidence. 
EYRE 4164 That who would join them 
EYRE 4166 Whose heads upon Temple-bar 
EYRE 4168 Mr. Wood —Recollect as much more of the speech as you can. 
EYRE 4169 One of the Jury—Did you mention the time when this meeting took place
EYRE 4203 Did you see Mr. Yorke any more 
EYRE 4288 Why do not you answer the question 
EYRE 4499 Why do not you give an answer 
EYRE 4506 Do you recollect, and if you do, have you any objection to telling us 
EYRE 4508 Then do you recollect what you quarrelled with Mr. Smith about? 
EYRE 4510 Give him fair play. 
EYRE 4625 He is able to give no account at all of it; and as to any impression upon his mind, certainly youcannot ask him to that. 
EYRE 4639 How long have you known Alexander
EYRE 4641 What was his situation 
EYRE 4643 What shop was he in 
EYRE 4645 George Widdison sworn
EYRE 4647 You lived at Sheftield, I believe 
EYRE 4649 What is your business 
EYRE 4651 Have you any other employ 
EYRE 4653 Were you at any time a member of the Constitutional Society at Sheffield 
EYRE 4655 About what time did you become a member
EYRE 4657 Were you at any time a delegate, at any division of that meeting 
EYRE 4659 What division of the Sheffield meeting were you a delegate of 
EYRE 4661 When was the separation made; how long after you became a member ; do you recollect at what time you became a delegate 
EYRE 4663 How many members might there be at that time 
EYRE 4665 Was the Fountain one of the houses you met at
EYRE 4667 Do you remember, at ny time, being there at any meeting of the society 
EYRE 4669 How many people might be there at the time 
EYRE 4671 And that is about two years ago
EYRE 4673 How long did you continue a member of that society 
EYRE 4675 When you first remember the society, where did they hold their meetings at Sheffield 
EYRE 4677 Do you know a person of the name of Yorke 
EYRE 4679 Do you know him by any other name 
EYRE 4681 When did you first see Mr. Yorke; about what time
EYRE 4683 Where was it
EYRE 4685 Did you ever see him, at any time after, at any of the meetings of the Constitutional Society 
EYRE 4687 Was he often there 
EYRE 4689 About what time, as near as you can recollect, did you see him
EYRE 4691 When was that 
EYRE 4693 When did you see him at any other meeting
EYRE 4695 Tow long was that meeting, do you recollect, after the former 
EYRE 4697 Do you recollect any thing particular in Mr. Yorke’s conduct and speech, when saw him atthe Barrel
EYRE 4699 Do you remember seeing him, at any time after that, ata meeting in the open air
EYRE 4701 That was about the beginning of November last; was it not 
EYRE 4703 What was done at that meeting
EYRE 4705 Were you there when any delegate was elected 
EYRE 4707 I mean a delegate to the Scotch Convention 
EYRE 4709 When was that
EYRE 4711 Who was the delegate
EYRE 4713 What was he
EYRE 4715 Was he an attorney at the time he was elected 
EYRE 4717 Did he go to Edinburgh in consequence, of ae appointment of a delegate 
EYRE 4719 Did you see Mr. Yorke, at any time in the present year, at Sheffield 
EYRE 4721 In what month
EYRE 4723 Did you attend upon him 
EYRE 4725 Where did he live at that time
EYRE 4727 Had you an opportunity, when you were about Mr. Yorke, to know what he was doing; whether writing any thing ; or what he was about
EYRE 4729 Did you learn, during the time you attended Mr. Yorke there, whether any address, or any thing was going forward that he had any share in
EYRE 4731 Were you ever with Mr. Yorke, at any time when any thing was said about arms 
EYRE 4733 What time was that; tellus the circum
EYRE 4734 “ Rules, Articles and- Regulations ; to be ob served by the Members of the Loyal Lambeth Association. London: Printed for the Society, 1792. 
EYRE 4735 “Whereas the fear of invasion, and civil commotions, have alarmed several of the inhabitants of this parish and its vicinity, we have thought proper to form ourselves into a military association, to be distinguished by the name of the Loyal Lambeth “issuciation, united for the defence of their country, lives and property ; and against all subverters, and levellers of peace and good order; ever ready to step forward in the above case when called upon, within the parish of St. Mary’s, Lambeth. 
EYRE 4779 The moment you have proved one of the terms of your proposition you are right ; at the mement it is that this association of Franklow’s was under the eckenes gel apnea undoubtedty ever’ ing t wi evidence against the: oa . meh I do not observe that the evidence g goes farther than this—in the course of trade Williams buying shoes and boots of Hardy, Hardy recommends him to Franklow, in'the way of his business, and there is no: thing that I can discover, at present, to coonect Franklow’s transaction, with r to this association, with Hardy, except so far as the: members of it, can be traced to be members of the London Corresponding Society : you have examined with a view to that, and it appeared to me that that examination rather failed, for he did not undertake to know that any of those people were members of that society. wt 
EYRE 4785 Franklow was a member of the London Corresponding Society —this association undoubtedly was formed by him, it is his creature absolutely ; and therefore that is the ground on which the transaction of that association must be fet in. 
EYRE 4790 Whether the principle will apply to the particular fact is another thing ; butit has been so often stated, that I am surprised we have not had the good fortune to make ourselves understood by the bar, because we have stated from the beginning of this trial, that there was a species of evidence, which was admissible in this case, which had no immediate relation to the prisoner; and that there was another species of evidence which had immediate relation to the prisoner—that inasmuch as the prisuner is charged with being involved in a conspiracy and some evidence being given of his having been so involved, that all the transactions of that conspiracy, to which he is not immediately a party, he will be bound by, if, upon the whole, he has consented to that geteral conspiracy; and that, therefore, all the transactions of a plot are always given in evidence, without regard to the question, whether the prisoner is proved to be concerned in those particular transactions—always with this reserve, that there must be evidence enough against the prisoner to prove him so involved in the plot, as to become seapansibie for all the parts of it—thatseems sufficiently distinct. 
EYRE 4791 But there may be a doubt whether this particular case falls withio the principle. ‘Fhe first question is—whether there is any evidence here of Franklow’s being a member of the London Corresponding Society; if the only proof of that is, that he dined in an un form at their annual dinner, I should have great difficulty about that, because, I under stand, that they were in the habit of receiving visitors as well as entertaining their own members—that being so, a man might be there without being a member of the London Corresponding Society. 
EYRE 4792 Supposing it once proved distinctly that he was a member of the London Corresponding Society, then the question will be, was hea member of the Corresponding Society, who is charged with having a great share in the whole of this transaction—is found to be associating persons together under a pretence not true in fact, of their being inhabitants of Lambeth, and associating forthe defence of the inhabitants of Lambeth; that they are furnished with arms, are learning the manual exercise, and are connected with the society, either by Franklow’s being, or being themselves members of the Corresponding Society. I cannot undertake to say, that that will not connect with the general history of this transaction; and, therefore, there may be room upon that ground to admit the evidence ; but first of all, how is the fact with regard to Franklow being a member? 
EYRE 4794 Unless the be put exactly in the condition of F; your objection is right. 
EYRE 4811 Enquire what the conversation was, because whether he rightly collects the effect of it or not, cannot be known with certainty. 
EYRE 4815 You said you understood from conversation amongst them, what they intended to du. Now what were those conversations, and from whom did you hear those conversations
EYRE 4835 All that can affect Franklow by the general evidence, must be admissible. 
EYRE 4838 Nothing turns upon the question whether Hardy did or not recommendWilliams to Franklow, the ground of its admissibility is simply that Franklow was a member of the London Corresponding Society, then as a ground of the general conSpiracy, it is offered to prove that Franklow has formed an association of armed men, to which, association they will impute a design connected with this alleged conspiracy ; whatever, therefore, will fix Franklow with that, has been considered as proper evidence to shat eral charge; and the only question, therefore is, whether laying, for a moment, the imself at the bar, whether if he makes an association of persons of this description, and if there are convetsations passing in his presence, from: whence a bad design can be imputed to this association, whether that is not admissible evidence as against him? what the effect of the evidence will be, it is truly obseryed, will depend upon a thousand circumstances; whether he was attending, whether if he was attending, he approved or disapproved of it? all which may avoid the effect ef the evidence; still it seems to me that as against Franklow, and to fix upon him the having been. guilty of forming this association fora purpose, the transactions that pass in hie hearing are clearly evidence. 
EYRE 4839 Mr. Bower to Williams.—You told me Mr. Sanderson and Mr. Nodder were present at a conversation that I should have asked you to, if I had been admitted; were they present at Spence’s, Franklow’s, or Shelmerdine’s 
EYRE 4849 Did you say you were a member of the London Corresponding Society 
EYRE 4855 I understand the Court to have decided that you may inquire into conversations in the presence of 
EYRE 4856 ‘ranklow. 
EYRE 4858 Not what he collected. 
EYRE 4859 Mr. Bower to Williams.—Tell me any conversation you recollect when Franklow was present respecting the London Corresponding Society 
EYRE 4861 Can you recollect any part of them; how did you collect it
EYRE 4863 When they met at all, was the subject of parliamentary reform intreduced at all as 2 topic of conversation 
EYRE 4865 You meaui it was not pores conversation, not as a debate, ur any thing of that kind
EYRE 4867 But they were talking to each other
EYRE 4869 Were they talking so that Franklow beard them 
EYRE 4871 We ought to be always very correct when collecting what people said. I think you had better not press it. 
EYRE 4905 How many stand of arms did you find there
EYRE 4907 Of how many persons did this armed society consist
EYRE 4909 Whether all the persons of the association were members of the London Corresponding Society
EYRE 4911 Did you afterwards become so
EYRE 4913 How many persons have you scen at any one time together at this armed society 
EYRE 4915 Who had you to teach yeu the military exercise there 
EYRE 4917 Or at the place to which you adjourned 
EYRE 4919 What was the house to which they did adjourn 
EYRE 4921 Was the name of the person Day 
EYRE 4923 Where did that private committee sit 
EYRE 4925 At Day’s 
EYRE 4927 What were those places where you were to assemble 
EYRE 4929 Did you assemble with others at any time at either of those places
EYRE 4931 For what number of weeks did you meet
EYRE 4933 From the 11th of April, till May, you continued to go to Spence’s, and this shed in Westminster, for the purposes of exercising
EYRE 4935 Who was the person that generally taught you
EYRE 4937 And you were there taught the military exercise 
EYRE 4939 What was Orr
EYRE 4941 Had he served abroad 
EYRE 4943 Was he a member 
EYRE 4945 You were not at first admitted, but you became afterwards a member of the Corresponding Society 
EYRE 4947 What was the reason that you did not ig afterwards to exercise at Shelmerdine’s
EYRE 4949 rd Chief Justice Eyre.—Hazardous to the cause; to what cause
EYRE 4951 When you say, the cause, do you mean the cause they were engaged in
EYRE 4953 You were in au association, and had articles of an association
EYRE 4955 Were not the articles acted upon
EYRE 5000 Was that your armed society? No; the London Corresfoballig Socie 
EYRE 5028 These observatrons are more proper when you come to address the jury. 
EYRE 5146 You have better evidence I suppose of the resolutions, than of the conversation ? 
EYRE 5256 Who was it said all this 
EYRE 5298 No, I think it would not be proper. 
EYRE 5343 As to any ques tion which tends to accuse you of any crime, not immediately connected with this matter, I will protect you; but at the same time keep your temper, attend to the question, and give a direct answer. 
EYRE 5351 You had better answer the question. 
EYRE 5352 I carried on the business of a hair-dresser in that name, for I believe pretty near seven years. Where did Pha reside 
EYRE 5354 0. 8. 
EYRE 5355 When did you first come to live in Petty France, No. 3, as a hair-dresser, by the name of Douglas
EYRE 5357 I am not very particularas to dates, I do not want to be in any of your secrets, if there can be any reason in the world for your not choosing to answer me —Had you any at ticular reason for changing your namef—I will state my reason; my father had a shop of business in the city, his business was chiefly in the wig and shaving way; for improvement I wished to go to the west end of the town. I went and worked with a man, whose name was Penton, in Bloomsbury, for improvement; it was, perhaps, trom false pride I did not choose it to be known that I was working as 4 journeyman, when my father kept four of five men; and as for taking the name of Douglas, I took it from aj play-bill. I have no objection to a decent pride, you took a very good name. It struck you ina} 
EYRE 5358 moment to take the name of Douglas from a play-bill
EYRE 5360 Pray how long did you play this part of Douglas
EYRE 5362 Do you know a Mr. Lincoln
EYRE 5364 Please to answer my question fitst, do you know Mr. Lincoln 
EYRE 5366 Who is Mr. Lincoln 
EYRE 5368 Did you at any time,—I am not asking you eny thing that is criminal,—did you at any time borrow any money of him
EYRE 5370 How long ago is it that you borrowed any money, and what sum of him
EYRE 5372 Was it ten guineas
EYRE 5374 Did you give him a note for it 
EYRE 5376 id, part my wife paid, and the remainder ie has been since paid. 
EYRE 5377 When did you pay part of it yourself
EYRE 5379 Did not Mr. Lincoln come into the London toffee-house by mere accident, where the Witnesses for the crown are, I believe, provided with what is fit for them to have, and gaw you there, and said, how do you do Douglas(—Permit me to explain, that that was Botthe way; that wouldcarry a different construction from the manner in which it was done. Mr. Macnamara first came himself, whem I never had seen; he asked me quesfons; I told him a stair-case there with a manIhad never seen, was not a place to enter into an explanation upon the subject. 
EYRE 5380 Tam not speaking about Mr. Macnamara, but asking what passed when Mr. Lincoln came into the London coffce-house 
EYRE 5382 Mr. Macnamara had been there before, and hed behaved in-such a manner that you were 8 flurried that you did not know what you said to Mr. Lincoln when he came in 
EYRE 5384 But you recollect what you said to me, not two minutes ago; that Mr. Macnamara had been there before, and had behaved in such a fsanner, that when Mr. Lincoln came, you were so confused, from Mr. Macnamara’s conduct, that you hardly knew what yousaid
EYRE 5386 He said to you, how do youdo Douglas 
EYRE 5388 What would be brought forward 
EYRE 5390 Did. you know where Mr. Lincoln lived in the interval, between the time when you borrowed the money from bim and to the time you saw Mr. Macnamara and Mr. Lincoln at the London coffee-house
EYRE 5392 Had you seen him in the interval
EYRE 5394 Let me ask an explanation of something, which I confess I did not understand; how came you to say ty Mr. Worship that yoa dealt in naval stures
EYRE 5490 A charge brought when and where 
EYRE 5499 There is no occasion for your interrupting the examination ; probably, it is an answer; but he may be pressed to see whether he can answer farther or not. 
EYRE 5523 Consider whether it will be prudent to go into an examination upon that; if Mr. Macnamara has been so imprudentas to go into a coffee-house, and talk to the witness, it would be at best an incautious thing for a gentleman to go where the crown witnesses are, to enter into conversation with them ; and, I think, it had better not be done ; I hope no other gentleman will do it. 
EYRE 5687  I wish it had been observed before. 
EYRE 5692 The other was found before ; the material objection is, that this may have been printed afterwards; it was found afterwards, and there is no evidence of its existence before; therefore it must be rejected, unless you are prepared to show, that the printing existed before. 
EYRE 5728 If he knows who the persuns were who mentioned these particulars he is now stating, he ought to give their names ; if he dues not know the names of the persons, he should state it as being said by persons of that society. 
EYRE 5743 What were those terms of contempt
EYRE 5745 Did you ever hear him speak of the House of Lords and speak of the utility or inutility of that branch of legislature 
EYRE 5747 What did he say about the House of Lords
EYRE 5749 Did he recommend the abolition of any of those parts
EYRE 5751 In what manner did he recommend them to be new modelled 
EYRE 5753 How to be taken 
EYRE 5755 Did he recommend any particular means of obtaining those annual parliaments
EYRE 5757 Did you ever hear him mention a convention 
EYRE 5759 Did he recommend that measure 
EYRE 5761 He recommended a convention for the puspose of new modelling the government and obtaining annual parliaments and universal suffrage 
EYRE 5763 Were you present at Chalk Farm 
EYRE 5765 On what day were you there 
EYRE 5767 Was there a very large assembly of persons there 
EYRE 5769 Do you know the persons of any present 
EYRE 5771 Do you know the prisoner 
EYRE 5773 Was he among the persons present 
EYRE 5775 Who was in the chair
EYRE 5777 What passed at that mipeLNs 
EYRE 5779 No matter, you must not state the contents of the letter. 
EYRE 5784 If he can speak to any particulars that happened there beyond the address, and what is contained in the address, to be sure it will be proper to examine him toit; I believe the address is in evidence. 
EYRE 5878 W hat was Richter reading at that time
EYRE 5880 Which of those papers 
EYRE 5882 The general address; the address to Margarot; or, the approbation of Hamilton Rowan, aad the rest
EYRE 5926 Was there any body else present, or was that a conversation between you two only 
EYRE 5928 Were they near enough to hear this conversation 
EYRE 5932 What sort of an instrument 
EYRE 5949 Did you know where Green lived at that time 
EYRE 5951 Did you go to buy one
EYRE 5953 Did you learn from Green what number of these knives he had sold 
EYRE 5955 Did you attend afterwards a meeting your division, which I think was No. 2, in Compton-street, on the 28th of April 
EYRE 5957 Do you recollect ‘any observation made by Pearce, respecting those knives, and the use 
EYRE 5958 “and convenience of them
EYRE 5960 Pearce is a person whom you are sure you saw using one of these knives at Chalk-farm
EYRE 5962 What was the fault he found with them 
EYRE 5964 Did he mention that there were man others of a similar construction made at Shelfield 
EYRE 5966 You say you do not recollect the day of the month 
EYRE 5968 Were you present at any meeting, when any subscription was made for ddector Hodson
EYRE 5970 Where was any subscription for this doctor Hodson proposed when you were present
EYRE 5972 Do you recollect when that was
EYRE 5974  Was such a subscription proposed
EYRE 5976 Was any thing collected under that subscription 
EYRE 5978 I believe you were present at the dinner at the Crown and Anchor-tavern, on the second of May 
EYRE 5980 Before I go to that, I will just ask you as to one meeting at an earlier period, the 25th of February 1794. Do you recollect bein present ata division-meeting, when any dress from Stockport was read 
EYRE 5982 Have Mes that address about you
EYRE 5984 What day 
EYRE 6022 Where
EYRE 6044 Have you got it
EYRE 6058 Were those: members or visitors 
EYRE 6076 Does much tunt upon the names? ‘ 
EYRE 6093 Do not speak about compliment.—W hat did he say 
EYRE 6095 Do you mean that he said the same thing of the House of Lords as of the House of Commons
EYRE 6097 What was in order to amuse
EYRE 6109 Was it the song of God save the King 
EYRE 6162 There can be no imputation upon you for answering the question ; if you decline answering, that is another thing ; it exposes you to no difficulties, or penalty, or any thing of that sort. None; it is only a point of delicacy. I am ready to give an answer, I have not the least objection on my part. 
EYRE 6165 Upon a general principle I do not know whether it ought to e answered. 
EYRE 6166 Mr. Groves
EYRE 6169 He has said what is proper and material for your purpose : that is, that he went there, being employed for the purpose of collecting information, with a view to the disclosure of it. 
EYRE 6171 I do not think it is proper. 
EYRE 6175 It is hardly proie that the history of a connexion of that ind should be disclosed here. 
EYRE 6176 Groces
EYRE 6179 You find he went on purpose togive information of what passed ; that is the only fact that is material for the prisoner; the rest is private intercourse, which may involve in it the consideration of a thousand other things, which may be material to the government ofthe country. I think it not proper to be disclosed here, itis not necessary to the cause. 
EYRE 6180 Mr. Groves
EYRE 6188 There should be no name given to a witness on his examination: he states what he went for, and in making observations on the evidence, you may give it any appellation you please. You recollect I made the observation before, when Mr. Erskine did the same thing. 
EYRE 6190 Go on. 
EYRE 6201 Mr. Gibbs, Iam sorry to interrupt you, but your cuestions ought not to be accomp:nied with those sort of comments: they are the proper sulyects of observation when the defence is made. The business of a cross-examination is to ask to all sorts of acts, to probe a wilness as closely as you can ; but it is not the object of a cross-examination, to introduce that kind of periphrasis as you have just done. 
EYRE 6202 sc 
EYRE 6210 I should be extremely sorry if it should be supposed that I mean to make an observation that seemed to press personally upon either of the learned counsel who are now for the defendant, and particularly on the gentleman who is now cross-examining this witness, and more particularly if it were supposed I was capable of doing that in the absence of the other counsel; I hope that will never be imagined of me. 
EYRE 6211 With regard to the point, I think itis so clear that the questions that are put are not to be loaded with all the observations that arise upon all the previous parts of the case, they tend so to distract the attention of every bods, they load us in point of time so much, and that that is not the time for observation upon the character and situation of a witness is s6 apparent, that as a rule of evidence it ought never to be departed trom ; but it is certainly true that it dues slide into examinations, and that it is very often not taken notice of, and it saves more time frequently to let it pass than to take notice of it; but there is a rule to which all those sort of things, if once an appeal is made to the Court, ought to be brought, and my judgment is, that after you have got the particular facts upon which that sort of observation is founded, the examination ought to preed to the other facts upon the case, and the observations upon those furmer facts ought to make part of the defence. 
EYRE 6213 I will never suffer it to prevail on either side; but as far asf would indulge it, it should be on the part of s defendant. 
EYRE 6449 What date has that address 
EYRE 6451 Is this one of the papers
EYRE 6453 Upon receiving that paper, did you give any intimation of any kind to the master of the house
EYRE 6455 In fact you intimated, that there would be Ganger there; then in consequence of some Matimation, no matter what, that you pave to the master of the house, was that division of the society ad ooied to any other place
EYRE 6457 Did you attend at that meeting 
EYRE 6459 Was it there that you were accepted a member 
EYRE 6461 Did you become a member of that division that night 
EYRE 6463 Was the prisoner, Hardy, a member of the same division of the London Corresponding Society that you were admitted a member of
EYRE 6465 Were you present at any time afterwards at any other division 
EYRE 6467 Where was that, and what was the number of the division 
EYRE 6469 Did you make these minutes at the times to which they respectively refer 
EYRE 6471 Then you may refresh your memory bv them. What was the next meeting at whic’ you were present
EYRE 6473 How many persons might be present at that meeting
EYRE 6475 as the prisoner at the bar one of them
EYRE 6477 In what character did the prisoner appear there 
EYRE 6479 Who were the delegates at that meeting 
EYRE 6481 Was this a commitee of delegates 
EYRE 6511 What division was that 
EYRE 6513 It was not your own division, No. 12
EYRE 6521 You said you did not know who was the delegate 
EYRE 6547 Was thata letter addressed to the division, or communicated by the delegate as coming trom the committee of delegates 
EYRE 6549 How was that letter conveyed ; was that to the division, No. 2, at the Unicorn
EYRE 6551 Is that a report of what had been done in France
EYRE 6553 Had sent up their Address to the committee of delegates
EYRE 6555 Is that the whole of the minutes you have of what passed at that time
EYRE 6557 Were you a delegate of the new division, or did you continuc in the old one
EYRE 6559 Were the reasons for that recommendation stated 
EYRE 6561 Was this a recommendation to re from the ‘committee of delegates, reported by your delegate 
EYRE 6563 You do not mean a regular repdrt, but that this was conversation
EYRE 6565 Were yon present at a meeting of the delegees that day 
EYRE 6567 Wus any paper, or any proposal brought forward there
EYRE 6569 What Crown and Anchor declaration was that referred to
EYRE 6573 Was counsellor Vaughan present
EYRE 6575 Putting in or taking out those words 
EYRE 6577 Did you mean that you struck out, or added those words 
EYRE 6632 What was that about the receipt from the Post-office
EYRE 6634 What letter was to be carried to the post-office 
EYRE 6640 Where was Margarot at that time 
EYRE 6643 Is that a common thing 
EYRE 6645 “ London, 4th December, 1792. “ No. 10, High-street, Marybone. 
EYRE 6646 “ Sir, Honoured with, and happy in the confidence of a number of my countrymen, I have their request to transmit officially to his majesty’s ministers, two addresses jomed in one, and containing together the reasons why we have associated for a parliamentary reform, and the legal and peaceable methods hy which we hope to maintain it. 
EYRE 6647 “So sanctioned, I must also inform you that this letter, and these addresses, equally speak the sentiments of some thousands of industrious citizens, in this capital; and of a far greater number dispersed throughout the island, there not being a single-corner of it (Rotten Boroughs excepted) but cries aloud for reform. Contig in the justice of our claim, in the merits of our peaceable demeanour, and our ready obedience to all the laws of our country, we imagine ourselves clear from all charge or imputation of sedition, rebellion, conspiracy or treason ;. and that in pursuing what no one can deny to be our right, we are entitled to every protection and support of vernament
EYRE 6649 “ Equally known by his activity as by his knowledge of the ned an honest i irate, whose spies had well informed him of the nature of our meetings, has acknowledged that they were peaceable, innocent, and consrituTionat, and further admits the necessity of a reform : at your hands, sir, I therefore, demand justice and protection for the society against all ruffians, who, let loose on the pate have dared, or shall henceforward dare, the satellites of ancient sanguinary tyrants, assume to themselves the double office of making laws and executingthem. Certain that such an iniquitous system cannot originate ina British cabinet, we exclaim, may perdition light equally upon such vile miscreants, and upon their employers ! 
EYRE 6650 “Were we, according to the hackneyed custom, to recur to precedents, we should say, that Mr. Pitt, and the duke of Richmond, have themselves traced out the path which we now yates that they themselves have asserted the rights of Britons, to a fair, equal, and adequate representation in parliament— that they, themselves, had invited us to associate and discuss our rights; and we might add, that in so doing, they spoke, they acted like honest men, they were not then in office.” 
EYRE 6651 “But the Rights of the People being ever the same, such precedents and such supporters are superfluous. However, as things seen through the medium of power, have a very different aspect from what they wore when those worthy gentlemen were on the other side of the question, it is not altogether improbable that severities may be bad recourse to, to quell that desire for reform which they themselves have raised. Should that be the case, I beg it as a favour, or rather, peng 5 the foremost rank, claim it as my right, the attack may commence upon me. Whenever extraordinary measures may be adopted, I earnestly wish to be the first of the society in feeling the effects of them, and shall deem it not a proud, but an honourable Gay, in which I shall be called upon to plead the cause of my fellow citizens against oppression. 
EYRE 6652 “ Claiming protection, I have a right to your answer, either to refuse or to it it—in either case it shall be made public, as shall also “ed silence, should you not attend to this letter, expressing the request of many thousand citizens. Our country shall then judge us both. I am, sir, your very humble serv: 
EYRE 6653 ant, 
EYRE 6654 “ MAURICE MARGAROT, Chairman to the committee of delegates of the London Corresponding Society, united with a view of obtaining a thorough parliamentary refprm. 
EYRE 6655 “ The honourable Henry Dundas, secretary of state for the home department, &c. “ Delivery at the General Post-office. “ Witnessed 5th December, 1792. 
EYRE 6656 This was directed to be printed 
EYRE 6658 And this was one of the copies that were printed 
EYRE 6660 ; magistrates; but take care that we say that mason's tavern; their letter saying, t they there isnot the least disposition en ofwould be very glad to correspond with them 1 D i I] perse-as they are in the same way of parliamentary ; vere in a parliamentary reform. If the pro-reform, wrote by Margarot to Mr. Stuart, No. secuted person 3S found not to have been rash15, Frith-street, Soho. The next is a division in words or in violence, a proper person tomeeting, No. 33, Crown-street, the 18th of protect by the society. December; nothing passed there. The next 
EYRE 6661 What was donemeeting is the goth of December, No. 31, upon this
EYRE 6663 e Was the prisoner there
EYRE 6665 Have you any church. Division No. 12, recommen led to et parliament before Mr. Grey brings in is bill for a parliamentary reform. 
EYRE 6666 ‘Was Baxter supported 
EYRE 6668 It was approved of, if it had not been ap‘proved I should have made a memorandum "at the time. 
EYRE 6669 You know if it 1 was carried into execution there would have been copies to be sent to the magistrates ; 
EYRE 6670 was there any direction that copies should be gent to the magistrates
EYRE 6682 Was it resolvedhand-bills, and show that they are not disthat it should not be communicated to the heartened, and are determined not to sign but different meetings
EYRE 6684 i nn parliamentary reform—agreed that Margarot -do draw it up against the next meeting. There came forward a petition from William Carter, who was employed to stick those bills‘up, that he had lost a place of twelve shillings a week. 
EYRE 6685 Doany directions appear to be given in sepnsesucnce of that 
EYRE 6710 Who proposed to publish that declaration? —This was a matter that was brought forward by some one of the delegates at the meeting, upon every thing of that sort that was proposed, the opinion was taken of every delegate, one after another, and in the course of taking that opinion, there were two of the divisions, or two of those delegates, that objected to it. 
EYRE 6711 Did that stop it 
EYRE 6713 Was it according to the course of the business, that if two divisions objected, the measure was stopped for the time
EYRE 6725 And they agreed to petition by all means 
EYRE 6749 This was a conversation at the prisoner’s
EYRE 6751 How many attended 
EYRE 6753 Where was that meeting
EYRE 6755 Mi t’s, that it was supposed it would be for life; a committee appointed to inquire into the opens of his defence, and the manner in which it had been conducted by Martin; a motion then was made, for all the delegates to meet every Saturday evening for public conversation, paying a-penny each for the room-:-agreed to, and to be when Carter’s business isdone; this public conversation was to discuss politics for the purpose of informing themselves of the situation of the then times, and what steps were pursuedain the House of Commons. The next is January the 17th
EYRE 6757 What is the Bell Society 
EYRE 6759 What manuscript is that
EYRE 6771 How much of it have you a minute of 
EYRE 6777 Does your minute purport that that reply was produced at this meeting of delegates, that it was produced upon that day 
EYRE 6779 Go through your minute and see what it is
EYRE 6785  You are not speaking now from a minule
EYRE 6791 Did you attend no longer as a delezate
EYRE 6793 Was the prisoner there
EYRE 6795 No. 25, and No. 16, were, I understand, the Spital-fields divisions? — They are the two Spital-fields divisions. 
EYRE 6796 Was the expression, war 
EYRE 6798 Was there any explanation given of that expression 
EYRE 6800 I did not ask how you understood it, but whether there was any explanation actually given in words, at that time, by any body, of what was meant by war f—That the country would rise against the present government. 
EYRE 6811 You said that Hardy proposed a delegate from each division 
EYRE 6818 Does it appear whether there was any delegate chosen, or not
EYRE 6820 Lord Chief Justice Eyre. Whom was 
EYRE 6821 Godfrey rejected by 
EYRE 6823 Mr. Bower. What is become of the Iolborn Society
EYRE 6825 Was that contained in your letter to the society at Norwich? —This is what was agreed by the meeting of the delegates, to be sent by each delegate to each division, to consider what they should do at that time; and it is statedas three questions—frrst of all whether you will petition the king, or whether you will petition the parliament, or whether you will call a convention, to be submitted to the delegates. It was remarked that it might be as well to decline coming to any resolution till the whole nation are agreed
EYRE 6827 1 is reported that the Aldgate society hadthanked Mr. Fox for his speech, saying that the people may alter the constitution without giving their reasons for it—that is the society that were got together, and called the Bother’em society
EYRE 6829 Crown-street — t was agitated there, upom the question, which was the right age for election, eighteen or twenty-one—there wasa great difference of opinion in the meetiag— 
EYRE 6830 one was for eighteen years, ten for twenty-one, and one for neither, unless householders
EYRE 6832 Mr. Erskine. Is that a report, or what somebody eaid 
EYRE 6834 E. Jeremiah Carter, chairman, saying, verysoon their plan would come forward to reform all the abuses existing —Mr. Reeves’s society is unconstitutional, their society is to create an organ to speak to the legislature—they will not give up their power of action to any society—but they say the time of action may not be very distant—this is a letter from the Friends of the People. 
EYRE 6841 That is your notion of it—your extract —Yes. 
EYRE 6868 What was the tile of Mr. Frend’s boak
EYRE 6870 Was this Patriotic Society the same you mentioned before, that broke up, and the greatest part joined the Corresponding Society 
EYRE 6872 Have you any minute of any debates upon the subject of the necessity or the occasiun of proposing this committee 
EYRE 6874 —the week’s payment— admission of 8—vote of exclusion—the number of constituents before you branch off—the sumMonses sent to each night’s meeting—that is regulate—the next is, the constitution of ge-neral principles—committee’s laws relative to themselves—the said delegates private regulations—laws relating to the society election of chairmen and of door-keepers. 
EYRE 6888 Did not you say that there was a resolution that there should be a new clection of delegates on the 28th of March 
EYRE 6890 Was there a new election of delegates 
EYRE 6892 Were you reelected 
EYRE 6912 Was any thing done upon that anonymous letter 
EYRE 6914 Who made that proposition to call a general meeting 
EYRE 6916 What did you say it might be thalety to do 
EYRE 6918 What was done upon that
EYRE 6920 Was any thing done with respect to Mr. Wharton's motion 
EYRE 6922  Advised ot agreed upon 
EYRE 6951 Was this a meeting of delegates
EYRE 7016 Do you mean the finances at Norwich or of your society 
EYRE 7019 How do you state that
EYRE 7022 Is this that you state about the instructions part of the letter, or what was done by the society upon the letter
EYRE 7026 That was part of the Norwich letter
EYRE 7031 Then what was Meant about instructions
EYRE 7033 td Chief Justice Eyre
EYRE 7035 that there was an instruction sent to them in a letter 
EYRE 7072 Was it a different sub-committee, from the sub-committee that was to man the dinner
EYRE 7258 I think you mav say that it was or not toa magistrate 
EYRE 7263 It is perfectly right that all opportunities should be given to discuss the truth of the evidence given against a prisoner; but there is a rule whieh has universally obtained on account of its impostance to the public for the detection of crimes, that those persons who are the channel by means of which that detection is made, should not be unnecessarily disclosed: if it can be made appear that really and truly it is neeessary to the investigation of the truth ef the case that the name of the person should be disclosed, I should be very unwilling to stop it, but it does not appear to me that it is withia the ordinary ceurse to do it, or that nally put, your lordsbips will permit me first to state what was the fact at the time that this objection arose. My learned friend asked the witness, whether the person to whom he made the Communication was or was not a magietrate? As 1 understood the answer of the witness, it was to this effect; that he ghere is any necessity for it in this particularcase; all that this witness say6 is, I did this upon advice; I did from time to time communicate with a friend for the purpose of its being communicated to & magistrate, and in that manner it was that I eame to know these transactions. 
EYRE 7264 If there is a rule that the channel by which those communications are made should not be disclosed, that rule I think will extend to this case: I rather think that we have this day determined that there is such a rule, 
EYRE 7265 I cannot satisfy myself that there is any substantial distinction between the ease of this man’s going to a justice of the peace, Or oing to a magistrate superior to a justice of the watched by those whose duty it was to attend to it, The question immediately put upon that was, ifit wasneta magistrate, who was it? 
EYRE 7266 Now I know I ought tostate with great dif fidence, any opinion of mine upon a question of evidence, not having for years any of the courts of law, not knowing what the practice of the courts is at thie day, and not being therefore able to state from principle what rule is to be deduced from that practice ; but in the course of the early period of my life I have had a good deal to do with this sort of business in the courts of law, and lordships, the way in which the question was I beg humbly to state my own opinion, that put to the witness by Mr. Erskine, sas inif the rule with respect to asking & question order to sift his credit, whether what he saidof a witness be that he is to disclose the now was what be had always said; he askedchannel of communication to a magistrate, him this, not who employed him, but whotherthat a question porotng at persons who stand he had communicated to any body what hein situations, where they cannot be strietly had observed at the meetings of these socie- stated as acting as magistrates, but at the ties; his answer was, that be had eommuni-same time bave respect to the publie office of cated it to a friend: Now with great submis- magistracy, 18question that is not to be put. sion to your lordships, it is the common| My friend says, ought I not to try the practice, that when a man’s credit is sifted by credit of the witness? 1 happen, in the habit being asked whether he bas ever told theof my own profession for the last six years, 10 same story to another person, and he says heknow the practice in the court fof exchequer ; bas told jt toa particular person, he is alwaysit is 2 sort ‘of thing that occurs every dmyself.a asked who that particular person in, if thewitness say, L had an information that the gentleman who is examining him thinks it defendant bad committed an offence againet worth while to press the examination to thatthe revenue laws, for which he would incur a extent. forfeiture of thirty thousand pounds, if 
EYRE 7267 Ibelieve inchoose so to state it, What is the principle general, where it is not at all accompaniedupon which the Court says, you shal] never ask with the circumstance of its being a channel where he got that information? It may be of communication to government for discosaid, it is necessary I should know this, very, that what you say is true; and the only because it may be extremely essential in trying uestion is, whether there be such a rule forthe credit of the witness who speaks to other the sake of enabling the crown to watch overfacta, that I may know his credit as to other and detect grcat oliences, the channels offacts, by trying how far he is credible to the communication are not to be disclosed. Iffacts he states of A.or B. But what says a there be no such rule as that, your proposition court of justice? A court of justice does not is right: it appears to me that there is such asit to catch the little whispers or the huzaas of rule, and that we have this day determined popularity; it proceeds upon reat principles that such a rule exists; and I do not feel a of general justice; it says that individuals distinction between this case and that. must suffer inconveniences, rather than great Lord Chief Baron Macdonald
EYRE 7274 I have it thus: “ He made a report to one, who, he was certain, would communicate it, but not toa istrate. 
EYRE 7276 He did so. 
EYRE 7291 There is some doubt in the court how the fact stands; whether, in consequence of the first advice that he received from his friend, he disclosed those circumstances to the same friend, by whom he supposes it to be communicated regularly to some magistrate; or whether he applicd to some other person. I understood him that he applied to some other person himself. 
EYRE 7298 I, for my own part, adhere to my opinion. I think we must stand upon the principle, and that when we tun into very nice distinctions upon a principle, we get into difficulties from whence I never know how to disentangle myself, or to relieve my mind. The question is, whether, if it be opposed, any of the channels, by which this information and discovery comes to the officers of the crown, should be unecessarily disclosed? Isay unnecessarily, because it is no part of this fact at all whether this man did or did not mention this circumstance to this friend of his, or whether this friend of his gave him any particular advice. The only way in which it is permitted to be asked, is, because it may enable the defendant, by drawing out circumstances collateral to the fact, to establish a contradiction to the witness upon those collateral circumstances, and so to affect his credit. Now that would be true of every question that the wit of man could suggest; yet, undoubtedly, there are many questions which, even upon a crossexamination, a counsel is not permitted to ask. My apprehension is, that among those questions whch are not permitted to be asked, are all those questions which tend to the discovery of the channels by whom the disclosure was made to the officers of justice ; that it is upon the gencral principle of the convenience of public justice not to be disclosed ; that all persons in that situation are protected from the discovery; and that, if it is objected to, itis no more competent for the defendant to ask who the person was that advised him tomake 3 disclosure, than it is to whom he made the disclosure in consequence of that advice—than it is to ask any other question respecting the channel of communication, or all that was done underit. I never can distinguish, formy own part, the oases; if my brothers are satisfied there is sucha distinction, I shail be glad to submit to their opinion; but I think the principle extends to this case ; for, undoubtedly, an immediate answer to the question puts the person who gave this advice, into the situation desccibed by Mr. Attorney General, of being, in substance, the imformer to government of this transaction which this man discloses. I am of opinion, therefore. within the general rule upon this subject, the question ought not to be asked. 
EYRE 7299 Lord Chief Baron Macdonald —Iit seems you are agreed now with respect to this tact, namely, that the person, to whom the witness says he made the first disclosure, was neither a magistrate, nor any person concerned in the executive government of the country, and that from that person he received advice no longer to apply himself to him, because that was of no use, but that he should apply himself to some person, either in a magisterial character, or in some way concerned in the government of the country. There is no rule more sacred, undoubtedly, than that you ought not to ask any witness a question by which it should be disclosed to what magistrates or officer of the executive government he gave communication; and were I satisfied that the friend, to whom he disclosed this matter, was in any way a link in the communication, or a channel truly and substantially in the communication, I should certainly think that rule applied to him. On the other hand, it scems to me that upon a cross-examination it is material, when a person at a distance of time gives an account of transactions, to know whether it was then for the first time that he gave that account, or whether he gave that account recently after the transaction, or when he gave it, as that is a matter from whence important inferences may arise for the defendant. 
EYRE 7300 I think that that question should be asked, unless there should be a very great public inconvenience on the other side, which renders it much better for public justice in general, that the defendant should Josethe benefit of that question. In the particular instance it does appear to me, that a person not executing magistracy is in no situation to make it dangerous. A mere private peree simply saying,:do not come to me, but go to some person that can be of use, I think—as no possible disadvantage can arise in a case of that kind—it is a fair question to be asked, in order to ascertain huw a matter of this sort, alarming him, and attracting his attention, was or not revealed by him. I mean to draw the line distinctly in this way, that this person not being connected either with magistracy, or the executive government, it does not seem to me, in point of fact, to fall within the rule, which rule I hold sacred. 
EYRE 7359 You are asked a simple question; did you yourself go to any magistrate 
EYRE 7361 I wish you would not overpower the counsel or me with words. You are asked a simple question, whether you did, or not, go to a magistrate 
EYRE 7368 He never said that his friend advised him to a particular person ; if he did I have mistaken him. 
EYRE 7374 Certainly not. 
EYRE 7396 lIt is always usual, and very reasonable it is, when a witness speaks from memorandums, that the counsel should have an epee nity of looking at those memorandums, when he is cross-examining that witness. If there is any thing that you say, upon your oath, does not relate to that subject, but some other subject, to be sure it is impossible that it could be asked, that that should be seen; how to arrange that in a very long evidence, like this, is among the difficulties of so ex i a case as this is; we must struggle with it as well as we can; whenever you are at’ leisure to go through the subject with him, if he holds bis yarers in his hands, you can ask him, as to is minutes, if they could be separated by pasting over, or if, with safety, by obliterating those parts. 
EYRE 7398 I could. 
EYRE 7399 Have you any objection, Mr. Erskine, to his obliterating his other memorandums with ink, you a of him, upon oath, whether he has obli any of those articles to which he spoke, when he gave evidence? 
EYRE 7401 In a common case, it is the usual course, for the ceunsel to take the memorandums in-his hand, for the cross-examination, but, in this case, I do not see how it is possible to do this ; this is a history, an im tt and material history, to be sure, of the different branches of this society as it is formed into divisions, aime by commission of delegates for the whole; it has so happened, that here are the transactions both of the divisions, and of the delegates, that are now laid before the jury ; of courseit must run into great length; I cannot say into more length than its importance requires ; we are ready to do all that we can to assist yes, consistently with not obliging him to discover what does not relate to this cause. 
EYRE 7403 I will swear that. ‘ 
EYRE 7405 Yes. 
EYRE 7406 I understood him to say, that he did, in fact, make his reports from these minutes; if he did not make his report to the division from theseminutes, he must have had another set of notes, for he must have made some, from the nature of the thing; for they were to report to the division every thing that passed among the delegates, that did not come under the head of secrecy, on the next day of holding that division mecting ; therefore it must be from some materials; consequently, if he has dealt fairly with us, these are the minutes. 
EYRE 7408 I should, if I were in his case, put the book into your hand, without any difficulty, stating the parts that do not relate to this cause; then he will take his minutes, and obliterate those parts that do not relate to this cause against tomorrow morning. 
EYRE 7409 Mr. Maclean called again. 
EYRE 7426 Freedom, though an infant, makes herculean efforts ; and the vipers, aristocracy and monarchy, are panting and writhing under its grasp. May success, peace, and hap- piness attend those efforts. “ Permit us to add, that ‘the Society for Constitutional Information will gladly receive or communicate intelligences, and for that purpose be happy to correspond ‘either with other socicties or with individuals, that makethe great and common cause of an equal and real representation of the people in parlia-‘ ment, and the other grand objects of freedom, ; their end. Information on such: subjects, will, to this society, at all times, be peculiarly acceptable and gratifying. 
EYRE 7429 Yes. 
EYRE 7431 Yes. 
EYRE 7433 No. 1, China-walk, Lambeth. 
EYRE 7435 I was bound apprentice in November last. 
EYRE 7437 He used to be out very late at nights. 
EYRE 7439  Yes. 
EYRE 7441 Exercise. 
EYRE 7443 Exercise with fire arms. 
EYRE 7445 I did not know them all—I only knew two of them. 
EYRE 7447 Mr. Shelmerdine and Mr. Williams. 
EYRE 7449 Yes. 
EYRE 7451 In Bandy leg-walk. 
EYRE 7453 About twice a week. 
EYRE 7455 About eight at a time. 
EYRE 7457 I did not notice them always. 
EYRE 7459 I suppose they were all the same. 
EYRE 7461 Shut, 
EYRE 7463 I do not know. 
EYRE 7465 Yes. 
EYRE 7467 were there window-shutters, or curtains, or what ?—Shutlers. 
EYRE 7469 About eight o'clock. 
EYRE 7472 I do not know. 
EYRE 7474 I do not know. 
EYRE 7476 No; I was very ill at home at that time. 
EYRE 7478 I went back aday or two afterwards. 
EYRE 7480 Upon the first floor. 
EYRE 7482 I did not see any arms after I went back again. 
EYRE 7484 No. 
EYRE 7486 Yes. 
EYRE 7488 In the cuttingroom, 
EYRE 7491 Lying a-top of the board. 
EYRE 7493  My master bid me take them to Mr. Shelmerdine’s in Bandy-lep-walk, 
EYRE 7495 No. 
EYRE 7498 Yes. 
EYRE 7500 Yes. 
EYRE 7502 Yes. 
EYRE 7504 I do not know—Mr. Williams had them on. 
EYRE 7506 I do not know that he walked out with them. 
EYRE 7508 I have seen him with them on. 
EYRE 7648 What was the expression you did make use of
EYRE 7673 lt depends upon what the nature of the paper is; you are not bound to answer any question that may tend to criminate yourself. 
EYRE 7690 Can you fix the time when it was brought to you 
EYRE 7692 Edward Hodson, —cross-examined by Mr. Gi ‘ 
EYRE 7693 ibbs. 
EYRE 7694 Were you a member of either of these societies
EYRE 7696 How long have you been a member of it
EYRE 7698 When did you cease to be amember 
EYRE 7700 ‘At what time was that 
EYRE 7702 Have you any reason to think, during the time you were a member of the society, that they had any other objects but a parliamentary reform 
EYRE 7704 You never had 
EYRE 7706 In what House of Parliament 
EYRE 7708 Had you any idea that it was any part of their plan to attack the king 
EYRE 7710 In any sd seh lessen his authority in the state
EYRE 7712 Did you cease to be a member of the society from any thing that you observed yourself, or was it from Mr. Hardy and Mr. Adams being taken up
EYRE 7714 Did you attend the society often
EYRE 7716 However, during the whole time you did attend it, this was what you collected to be their object 
EYRE 7718 They have been ta king of a convention ; had you any idea in the society, or did you hear from any of the society, that that convention was to take upon itself the function of legislature, was to make laws 
EYRE 7720 But had you any idea that any body of men were to be called together, who were to take from King, Lords, and Commons, the power of making laws, and were themselves to make laws for them
EYRE 7722 Did you ever hear any conversation from any ofthe members, tending that way 
EYRE 7724 Had you any idea from any thing you ever heard, that there was an intention in this, or any of these societies, to introduce the anarchy of France into England 
EYRE 7726 You had not 
EYRE 7728 When was this hand-bill brought to you 
EYRE 7813 Were you there when it happened 
EYRE 7815 Were you present at any time when any resolution was passed with extraordinary solemnity, such as extending the hand (the mode of swearing I believe in Scotland), or by taking one another by the hand. Do you recollect such a circumstance, with respect to any resolution 
EYRE 7817 Do you recollect the dispersion of the British Convention, by the magistracy of the country 
EYRE 7819 Do you remember the fact of the dispersion of the convention 
EYRE 7821 After that do you know of forming any committees of ways and means, or any thing of that sort
EYRE 7823 I do not ask you what you understood
EYRE 7825 Do you know of the formation of any committee of union, which met in your own house 
EYRE 7827 Though you were not yourself present at any of their meetings, did you from any of the persons who were members of the British Convention before its dispersion, learn that there had been a committee of union formed; did you learn that after the dispersion of the convention from any of the members of the convention 
EYRE 7829 Did you understand that from any of the members of the convention which had been dispersed 
EYRE 7892 I perfectly agree with you. It is an habitual irregularity; I state that as a common excuse for it all, asa thing to be corrected as much as wecan. I did not expect we should get right in a moment; let us keep as much within bounds as we can; it disturbs the argument of the examination entirely, when it is so filled with these observations. 
EYRE 7973 I perfectly agree with you. It is an habitual irregularity; statc that as a common excuse for it all, as a thing to be corrected as much as wecan. I did not expect we should get right in a moment; let us keep as much witbin bounds as we can; it disturbs the argument of the examination entirely, when it is so filled with these observations. 
EYRE 7991 It is not a subject to be debated, but it is perfectly clear that just in the manner in which the question was put, the fact was not stated. 
EYRE 8081 Did he say who the people were that were to execute this
EYRE 8102 Were you present at that meeting too
EYRE 8104 How soon was shat after the first
EYRE 8106 think I was only five nights at that committee altegether. 
EYRE 8107 Was it the next night after, or later
EYRE 8109 Was there any thing in that address relative to his majesty 
EYRE 8111 For what purpose 
EYRE 8113 When was this proclamation, according to Watt’s representation, in that committee, to be carried into execution
EYRE 8115 Was the attack that you describe, the drawing the soldiers from the Castle, &c.
EYRE 8117 Was it explained by him, in the committee, what was to be done with those soldiers when they should he so surrounded 
EYRE 8119 Had you been a member of the British Convention at Edinburgh
EYRE 8121 Were you present at the passing of any of their solemn resolutions 
EYRE 8123 Do you know a person of the name of Orrock 
EYRE 8125 Do you know of any order he received from Watt to form any offensive instruments of any sort
EYRE 8127 ‘model, upon the table, or something. 
EYRE 8128 What trade is Orrock 
EYRE 8130 Did he reside in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh 
EYRE 8132 Do you know that, in point of fact, Orrock did make some pikes for Watt, in consequent of that order
EYRE 8134 Do you know of any having been found in Watt's or Orrock’s houses 
EYRE 8136 You mentioned a person of the name of Stock, who was present at this last meeting st which you and Watt were present 
EYRE 8138 Did Mr. Stock, at that time, mention any lace to which he was going
EYRE 8140 Did. he mention any person in London is particular upon whom he intended to wait, ia order to establish'a mode of correspondence with Mr. Watt
EYRE 8142 For what purpose: wae he to wait upon Mr. Hardy 
EYRE 8144 Do you remember Stock writing any thing then, as a plan of correspondence himself and any other person 
EYRE 8146 What was that paper represented to —Watt wished a correspondence betweet Hardy and him ; he- mentioned that he wish ed:to corfspond ina safe metited; and: he gave him this as a plan how he might corres- a plan, and point it out to the attention of the pond ie safety; that was the plan he mentioned. 
EYRE 8147 Was any thing said at that meeting of Stock’s calling aguin upon Watt on the subject of his going to London 
EYRE 8149 Did you see any thing more of Stock 
EYRE 8184 Had there been any notice given of such a motion 
EYRE 8188 Do not you com found that with an Address to the Nation 
EYRE 8253 You are asking this man to go the length of convicting himself of high treason
EYRE 8256 It is difficult to say that a question should be asked on one side, which should not be controverted by examination on the other side; witnesses therefore should understand to what they sube ject themselves. 
EYRE 8257 M Eo:an
EYRE 8265 That cannot be admitted. 
EYRE 8266 The Court was about to adjourn.] 
EYRE 8269 I feel the weight of your observations, of the difficulty under which you labour, in an extraordinary case, which can hardly be judged of by the common rules on which we proceed in cases of this nature; the Court are of a disposition to give you all the indulgence they Repsihly can, because there is a vast mass of evidence; the case arises out of the evidence, and it is fit the case should be thoroughly canvassed
EYRE 8271 Now I will tell you very fairly, if the question were only the personal accommodation of yourself and Mr. Gibbs, at the expense of the personal convenience of myself, my lord, and my brothers, I am quite sure we should have no difficulty in the sacrifice of our personal convenience; but there is a great deal more in the case,—we have a jury who have been thrown into the most arduous service that ever I sawa jury engagedin: they have borne it in a manner that does them infinite honour, and I have no doubt but that as far as it is necessary that they should continue in the situation they are in, that they will bear it chearfully
EYRE 8273 ou may go on with the case as far as it will e necessary for you to go on, to fillup all the time that ought to be filled up, leaving only a part of Sunday, the common interval of rest, without our keeping the jury in a situation to do nothing
EYRE 8276 I dread the explanation ofa few hours; Mr. Attorney Gesere what farther evidence have you to pro
EYRE 8279 tI shall sit late on Saturday night ; I say ing of Sunday. 
EYRE 8281 i can casily think that to be the case, and it is a circumstanceIam extremely sorry for; on the other hand, I cannot hazard the situation of the jury. 
EYRE 8284 What is it you ask for? 
EYRE 8286 Wehave offcred you an expedient; neither of you say to us whether you can accept it, 
EYRE 8288 That it may not be in your judgment a desirable thing is very well, but that there is any other objection to it, I cannot agree to. Whether the case is taken upon the summing up of the evidence, or whether it is taken upon the opening of the evidence, is as to all legal purpose the same; I can see no difference: it may make a vast difference in your judgmeut, as to whet is the best manner and the best method of laying your case before the jury ; undoubtedly we are assisting the prisoner by putting the counsel in a situation to do his business in the best manner, by proposing it thus; whereas if they were put u Going it in the ordi course, they would lie under a peculiar di culty and disadvantage. Mr. Erskine has act yet told us what he asks. 
EYRE 8290 Then suppose we adjoura to eleven o'clock. 
EYRE 8292 You will conduet your case in the manner you think best for the interest of your client. 
EYRE 8294 I feel so much for the situation of the jury, that on their account I cannot think of it. 
EYRE 8297 As the jury ask it for you, I will not refuse you. 
EYRE 8300 The only ground upon which any paper is objected to as evidence, found after the apprehension of the party, is Sot by possibility the paper might Dot have existed, or might not have been in the hands of the person till after his apprehension ; that is the only gecanil upon which the evidence is refused; if they remove that ground of objection, it is admissible. 
EYRE 8302 That goes rather to the effect of the evidence, than to the admissibility; it being found in the possession of the parties before the apprehension, removes in fact the objection. 
EYRE 8304 I observed that that goes more to the effect of the evidence, than, to its admissibility. ‘ 
EYRE 8335 Where did you see them 
EYRE 8395 I do not know that it is, 
EYRE 8413 I did not understand them to be the originals, or copies of the resolutions read at Chalk-farm, but that Martin said, at the time they saw these papers, that he had prepared the resolutions x Chalk-farm, and that the paper brought by Pearce was a printed copy of those resolutions; unless this shall turn out to be the original of the resolutions, it amounts to nothing. 
EYRE 8469 What mamber was that division? —The division that met at Scotney’s, the Three Tuns, on Snow-hill, I think No. 11. 
EYRE 8471 If he can take upon himself to say that it is the same paper. 
EYRE 8472  Countrymen, you are told by those who are in office, that you arein danger of a Freoeb invasion. 
EYRE 8473 “You are told by those who are cat of office, that you are in danger of a Hessiaa ur Hanoverian invasion. 
EYRE 8474 “In either case arms will be of use to yous agree among yourselves, get arms, and the use of them ! 
EYRE 8491 It appears to me that there is a clear, satisfactory ground upon which the evidence must be received, at the same time that you would be at liberty to insist that the execution of the order afterwards does not personally affect the prisoner, but it is a circumstance in evidence to establish the truth of the evidence of the order that the things were found afterwards correspin with the ore 
EYRE 8493 Nor do I wish to Ee you to admit any such thing. 
EYRE 8494 Mr. Garrow to ‘Middleton, — Flow many did you find
EYRE 8496 twelve blades without handles. 
EYRE 8497 What was it that led you to search Watt’s house 
EYRE 8499 8, : 
EYRE 8500 In what part of the house did you find them 
EYRE 8502 Did you deliver to Mr. Clerk, the sheriff of Edinburgh, those which you found in the house of Orrock, and those which you found in the house of Watt
EYRE 8504 Were the shaft and the blade united, at the time you found them, or apart
EYRE 8506 ‘the manner in which they are attached is, I understand, by a screw 
EYRE 8508 Mr. Lockhart, you said, was with you
EYRE 8511 To the Jury !— Or to your lordship. 
EYRE 8512 Is it to change any thing in the testimony you have given
EYRE 8517 This leads to 4 cross-examination. A witness desires to exlain a circumstance in his evidence; I should ery unwilling to introduce a new examination. 
EYRE 8519 No; I do not think it necessary; his explanation seems a fair one, to prevent any misinterpretation of his evidence. 
EYRE 8520 Mr. Attorney General:'—If a witness is to come afterwards, in this way, to explain his evidence, his not stating this in his original examination cuts out a great number of material questions. 
EYRE 8521 I perfectly with you; this explanation ought to be relave with abundant caution by the jury; and from another circumstance, the sort o practice we have got-into, of any man’s printing such accounts as his industry may collect in court, is certainly a very inconvenient practice, because it may lead to conversations with witnesses, and may induce these explanations. The jury will understand that the explanation is made in that situation of things, and theywill form their own judgment upon it. Yet still,Ithink, it should rest with the esplanation that the witness desires to offer. 
EYRE 8572 Does it appear that the Gay, who was in prison, is the Gay of Duke-street? 
EYRE 8861 The witness should be told, that there is a question touching the conduct of the society, whether it is highly criminal, or whether it is innocent; the witness understanding that, and being willing to answer, may answer ; but he must understand that, in consequence of his answering the questions, on the part of the prisoner, he will also be liable to be examined on the same points, on the part of the prosecution; and that I cannot then protect him, if any question is put to him that he would wish not to answer, 
EYRE 8863 Every witness should understand that when he is called. 
EYRE 8865 It is right he should be told. 
EYRE 8868 The witness has had a fair notice of the situation he isin ; if oe pioones to subject himself to answer, very weil. 
EYRE 8880 I apprehend the more correct question would be, what were the views of the society with respect to the House of Lords. 
EYRE 8899 What is the question that ae think there is any doubt about ; letus know what the question is, and the Court will give their assistance towards mediating. 
EYRE 8901 I do not exactly, at this moment, know to what it pointed ; it escaped me. 
EYRE 8914 It is time for me to interpose, and not to suffer these things to pass at. the table. I agree that you did ask the question in that manner, because I have taken itso; but I also agree, that you ought not to interrupt the cross-examination ; they will put their questions in such manner as they please, and you will setit right, if they 
EYRE 8915 ‘ put it wrong, when you come to re-examine the witness ; there ought not to be any breaking in upon one another, because one gentlethinks that another gentleman did not put the question in the manner he put it; he 
EYRE 8916 “puts the question in the manner he understands the gentleman put it. 
EYRE 8920 There can be no objection at all; the Court will certainly not interpose to prevent your sitting next the Counsel who are assigned for the prisoner, and giving them .any assistance that your partiticular knowledge may enable you to give them; at the same time that situation is a delicate one, and you will undoubtedly take particular care to avoid any thing that may give any ground to any man alive to suppose you donot make a correct useof it. I do not suppose you do otherwise, I have not taken any notice of your conduct that authorizes me to make any objection to it; but if you said any thing loud enough to be taken notice of by the witness, you were not so correct as you should have been. 
EYRE 8922 I do not desire you should, for if you can, though not assigned counsel for the prisoner, by your particular knowledge, be of any use to his 
EYRE 8923 Counsel, the Court have no objection to your giving any sort of communication you can possibly give. 
EYRE 8924 Mr. Attorney General.I heard said as distinctly as I bear myself, when I put the question, “ the letter about the pikes, 
EYRE 8925 I had really taken down the answer of the witness before any part of this conversation arose—“ that de had never heard of any letter from Sheftield about pikes. 
EYRE 9001 How 
EYRE 9009 But the question is, have you heard it or not
EYRE 9011 I have taken it down, that you heard ot a circular letter which went into Scotland 
EYRE 9050 You certainly gaid you had heard the song, “ Plant, plant the tree."
EYRE 9052 You are quite at liberty to explain, but you did say that you had heard the song, “ Plant, plant the tree
EYRE 9080 If the song is proved to have been sung in the society, then itis competent to ask whether that song is peaceable; but unless the song is proved to have been sung there 
EYRE 9081 Goddard
EYRE 9083 He has said that all the proceedings there were peaceable and orderly ; then if this song is proved to have been sung there, there certainly can be no. impropriety in asking him whether, according to his judgment, that proceeding was peaceable and orderly, but it is not proved that it was sung there. 
EYRE 9127 Nor heard of it
EYRE 9163 When did you cease to be a delegate 
EYRE 9267 Did you say you were at Chalk Farm 
EYRE 9269 Were the resolutions there put to the question
EYRE 9271 Did you vote for them 
EYRE 9273 Did you vote for them
EYRE 9275 Do you vote for things without knowing what they are 
EYRE 9277 Do not you see what difficulties you might bring yourself into, by concurring in things without knowing what they are? were you ear enough to hear what they were 
EYRE 9279 How did you vote 
EYRE 9281 Did you vote then upon the confidence you had in any body that was there? or what induced you to vote for a resolution you did not hear 
EYRE 9359 You mean you attended them as often as you could 
EYRE 9445 You have brought rself into a scrape, only for the sake of a lourish, When you are upon your oath, if you would only speak plain English, you would be under no difficulty ; there is a great difference between a shilling and a guinea, and five guineas, therefore you should not have conveyed an idea that you did not know whether you gave one shilling, two shillings, one’ 
EYRE 9446 guinea, or five guineas. I would advise you, when you are upon your oath, never to by metaphor ; you have brought yourself into aevelties but I dare say you meant very right. 
EYRE 9448 How much did you give, in plain English
EYRE 9451 Do you say it was not a guineaf—A tew shillings, to the best of my knowledge. 
EYRE 9452 Under, or about five shillings
EYRE 9455 That is perfectly irregular. It was certainly absurd in the witness not to recollect that he was upon his cath, and to talk in that rhodomontade way. I dare say he meant to speak the truth. 
EYRE 9514 The inquiry is, as to a meeting at the Crown and Anchor, of the Constitutional Society 
EYRE 9565 What he said was, that it was so long ago since he carried on any business, he could not recollect what business he followed. 
EYRE 9641 Since the report
EYRE 9643 Where did you see him 
EYRE 9645 Since the report
EYRE 9647 Recollect yourself
EYRE 9649 Therefore I stopt you, that you might recollect yourself. 
EYRE 9725 What the tenor of his conversation was, is, I suppose, your object. 
EYRE 9726 Mr. Attorney Generali cannot say 1 think it worth disputing. 
EYRE 9740 You have said you thought he did put confidence in you
EYRE 9742 I do not want to know the private history between you and him ; if you say you think he put confidence in you, it is very well. 
EYRE 9809 TI have often heard it put, and often heard it objected to; it is certainly nota strictly regular question; you are to ask his general character, and from thence the jury are to conclude, whether a man of such a character would commit such an offence; at the same time, in justice to the geet T must say I have known it asked a hundred times; I have very often myself objected to it. Mr. Garrow
EYRE 9929 How many met the first time 
EYRE 10034 The material observation arising upon it is that it was unsent, because he had no business to open it. 
EYRE 10036 Its being unsent’ is, I think, a strong circumstance indeed, but its being unopened J do not think amounts to much. 
EYRE 10094 Do not take am thing for granted when you are examipings witness. 
EYRE 10203 Were the proceedings at the Castle-hill published 
EYRE 10205  Was Mr. Yorke’s speech published likewise
EYRE 10207 Do you mean that speech 
EYRE 10209 And you have read that speech 
EYRE 10237 You have not asked the witness one question yet which hes not been irregular. 
EYRE 10238 Mr. Erskine. How am I toask a witness a question, touching a particular point, without leading him, in some measure? I do not mean to put the answer in his mouth;Iwill pursue the question in the very going to do, and will argue it with the gentleincn. 
EYRE 10239 way I was 
EYRE 10269 Did you say unknown to us
EYRE 10337 Did your committee take your proceedings down in writing? 
EYRE 10338 Sometimes. 
EYRE 10339 Did they keep a regular account
EYRE 10395 Had you any fixed time
EYRE 10451 Do you know whether it was, or was not
EYRE 10471 What was the title of the register 
EYRE 10473 A newspaper, published weekly 
EYRE 10516 Give short, clear distinct answers; that is the way to convince every body that you speak the truth, 
EYRE 10561  What is the date of the Declaration you speak of? 
EYRE 10563  When published? 
EYRE 10564 Mr. Stuart —Very soon after. 
EYRE 10730 The observations upon this transaction are in a much larger and higher scale than this. 
EYRE 10975 It is no question ;. it is an assertion. 
EYRE 11049 You are not asked what you thought yourself, but whether Mr. Paine’s book did not propose it in that manner 
EYRE 11073 You are pot asked whether you approved of that, or took that into your consideration, but whether it was in the book 
EYRE 11130 It was not seconded 
EYRE 11132 How were the votes taker
EYRE 11134 Were you present upon the other hill, at Sheffield, at the celebration of the fast 
EYRE 11136 You were one of the congregation 
EYRE 11138 How many thousands of you might be there that day 
EYRE 11140 You were one who joincd in all the ceremonies of that day 
EYRE 11142 When was it that your orderly and peaceable society, at Sheftield, first addressed the National Convention of France, as a national convention 
EYRE 11144 You never heard of'such a thing
EYRE 11146 You did not know that Sheffield had sent any address to France
EYRE 11148 Did you see the proceedings at the Castlehill, as printed afterwards with Mr. Yorke’s speech
EYRE 11150 They were pretty generally distributed at Sheffield 
EYRE 11152 I suppose you were not in the secret, that the motion to petition parliament was mude on purpose to be negatived; were you acquainted, before it was made, that there was to be such a motion made, ia order to n me it
EYRE 11154 That petition to the king, you speak of, was for the abolition of the slave trade
EYRE 11156 And enumerating a long list of grievances
EYRE 11164 You propose to call his grace, to ask him, whether this paper, now produced, is his letter to colonel Sharman; what has passed elsewhere with respect to it is nothing to the duke of Richmond. 
EYRE 11169 Then his grace may sit down, and cast his eye over it. 
EYRE 11170 Duke of Richmond
EYRE 11173 But whether it be exactly a true copy of the duke’s letter or no, it is that which they state they- acted upon. 
EYRE 11187 I take it you are now going to open a motion in the House of Lords, which is upon the Journals. 
EYRE 11189 You may open the substance of that motion; and if you go beyond that, then their objection lies, that you have stated something which is not in the evidence. 
EYRE 11284 Here the design is part of the overt-act; it is described as part of the overt-act. 
EYRE 11351 Mr. Erskine, I do not know whether you can be content to acseek in the opinion that we are inclined to form upon the subject, in which we go a certain way with you. Nothing is so clear as that all declarations which apply to facts, and even apply to the particular case that is charged, though the intent should make a part of that charge, are evidence against a prisoner and are not evidence for him, because the Presumption upon which declarations are evidence is, that no man would declare any thing against himself, unless it were true ; but that every man, if he was ina difficulty, or in the view to any difficulty, would make declarations for himself. Those declarations, if offered as evidence, would be offered, therefore, upon no ground which entitled them to credit. That isthe general rule. But if the question be,—as I really think it is in this case, which is my reason now for interposing, —ifthe question be, what was the politic speculative opinion which this manentertained touching a reform of parliament, I believe we all think that opinion may very well be learned and discovered by the conversations which he has held at any time, or in any place. 
EYRE 11363  You may put the question exactly as you propose; I confes! wished by interposing to avoid all discussiot, because I consider what we are doing, std whom we have at that bar, and in tht box, whoare suffering by every moment's th necessary delay in such a cause as this. 
EYRE 11375 What is this about. 
EYRE 11377  Recollecting what I do of the fact, I cannot concede that fact to you. 
EYRE 11381 Is it consented to on the part of the crown P 
EYRE 11383 I should be unwilling to admit ‘it, if it were expressly consented to, because it would lead the jury from that which belongs to their considera tion, into a history with which we have nothing todo. The duke of Richmond’s plan ts connected with the evidence, and therefore it was proper to be prodiiced, because twenty witnesses have referred to that plan as the very grounds of their proceeding; but whether a set of gentlemen who assembled, called themselves by 8 particular name, or what passed in Scotland, or what passed in Treland ; for upon the same principle you may go to that, or to what ‘passed all over the world, for any thing I know, ‘but it entirely earties us from ‘the point, arid has in my opinion, to soft ef connexion with the case. 
EYRE 11398 What should I say to it if I should be of opinion that the associations of that year were high treason? 
EYRE 11400 One might be compelled, for aught I can tell, to say so. 
EYRE 11402 I do not impute it to them, I only say that nothing that was done by any set of men ten years ago, -or at apy other time, with welch these persons tl00 
EYRE 11403 had no connexion, and to which they have not in any manner referred, can possibly influence the present case ; we cannot ingui into that transaction, or say any thing it. 
EYRE 11415 It is not quite regular to go into a general narration, which nay inte luce a great deal of matter which will not be evidence ; the point you are called upon to prove is that Mr. Hardy, upon your conversing with him, offered to assist you in disclosing every thing he knew, and to assist you in bringing forward the inquiry, because asto his declaration beyond that it may not be evidence
EYRE 11417 e afterwards said that the object of the society was very much mis-stated, for that they had nothing in view but a parliamen teform according to the plan of the duke of Richmond. 
EYRE 11418 Not what his conduct was upon it—his opinion. 
EYRE 11422 The declaration of the object of the society, and how it was to be pursued, may be a very different thing. 
EYRE 11448 Your Srst aX
EYRE 11449 pression, asf have taken it, was “the whole correspondence? — The whole correspgndence. 
EYRE 11450 I do not knaw Sie thes Mr. Sheridan used the word “ Joyrnal. : 
EYRE 11577 Is it very fair to allude to them? 
EYRE 11586 If you meanany thing that fell from the Court to that effect, rather think you misunderstood the Court. 
EYRE 11588 There was nothing said of those terms that I am aware of. 
EYRE 11590 Nor was it stated that these terms were used in that convention. 
EYRE 11740 Mr. Hardy, the counsel whom you have had assigned to you at your own request, have hitherto conducted your defence, examined your witnesses, and each of them has addressed himself to the jwry on your behalf: you are alco at full liberty to speak for yourself, if you wish to do so; and if you do, this is the proper time for you to be heard. 
EYRE 11872 Mr. Solicitor General, if you have finished this head on the Addresses to the National Conventivn of France, I think we had better adjourn ; as it will be impossible fur any human powers to sustain it, if we do not; and I think we should lose as much time to-morrow morning, as we should gain to-night. 
EYRE 12194 We are at the seventh day of this trial ; and it comes tom now to sum up this great and momentos cause. Is it expected or wished, on the pat of the prisoner particularly, , and also oa the part of the prosecutor, that the whole of ths written evidence should be repeated to be jury? or, would it be satisfactory to eve ly, that the parol evidence only should be summed up to the jury, that they should be left to their recollection of the written ev dence, together with the production of st parts of the written evidence, as, 0 course of the summing up, it may appet to me to be necessary to have recourse to If it is at all the wish of the prisoner in pert cular, or the counsel for the prisoner, orif is insisted upon on the part of the prosecutt, I shall not at all regret the expense of my time, or bodily fatigue, as far as it may be a cessary for me personally to go through it— would willingly spare the jury, if I could, cause their labour has been infinite; amd, I were to gu through the whole of the wn evidence, I am very apprehensive that should only load them with an imperfet collection of a mass of evidence, which, If! were stated again to them, they wouldatruth be less prepared to receive the at tions that I shall make upon those pets the evidence that appear tome tobei. 
EYRE 12198 Then I will take that course
EYRE 12200 SUMMING UP. 
EYRE 12201 Gentlemen of the Jury, The prisoner at the bar, Thomas Hardy, stands indicted for that he, together with John Horne Tooke—John Augustus Bonney—Steward Kyd—Jeremiah Joyce— Thomas Wardle—Thomas Holcroft—John Richter—Matthew Moore—John Thelwall— Richard Hodgson, and John Baxter—has compassed and imagined the death of the king: the language of the charge is— hat they conspired, compassed, imagined and intended, to stir up, move and excite insurrection, rebellion and war, against the king, within this kingdom of great Britain, and to subvert and alter the legislature, rule government therein established, and to depose the king from the royal state, title, power and gosernment of this kingdom ; and, to bring and put the king to death, and to fulfil, perfect, and bring to effect their treasons and treasonable compassings and imaginations aforesaid, they committed several evert acts, which are charged in this indictment
EYRE 12203 The third overt act charges them “ with meeting, consulting and deliberating the more readily and effectually to assemble such convention, for the traitorous purposes aforesaid, concerning the calling andassemblingsuchcpnvention, and how, when, and where the same should be assembled and held, and by what means the subjects of our said lord the king should and might be induced and moved to send persons, as delegates, to compose and constitute the same. ‘ 
EYRE 12204 The fourth overt act charges them with “ consenting and agreeing, for the same pur pose, that Jeremiah Joyce—John Augustus Bonney—John Horne Tooke—Thomas Wardle, Matthew Moore—John Thelwall—John Baxter—Richard Hodgson—John Lovett— William Sharpe, and John Pearson, should meet, confer and co-operate among them selves, for and towards the calling and assembling such convention. 
EYRE 12205 The fifth overt act is for “ causing and procuring to be madeand provided, andconsenting, and agreeing to the making and providing of diversarms and offensive weapons; that istosay guns, muskets, pikes and axes, forthe purpose of arming divers subjects of our said lord the king, in order and to the intent that the same subjects should and might, unlawfully, fore ci , and fraitorously oppose and withstand our lord the king, in the due and lawful exercise of his royal power and authority, in the execution of the laws and statutes of this realm, and should and might, unlawfully, forcibly, and'traitorously subvert and alter, and aid and assist in subverting and altering, without and in defiance of the authority, and against the will of the parliament of this kingdom, the legislature, rule and government established in this kingdom, and to depose, and to aid and assist in deposing the king from the royal state, title, power and government of this kingdom. The sixth overt act charges, “ meeting, conspiring and agreeing to raise, levy and make an insurrection, rebellion and war within this kingdom, against the king. 
EYRE 12206 The seventh overt act charges the “ meeting, conspiring, consulting and agreeing to subvert and aie and cause to be subverted and altered, the legislature, rule and govern ment established in this kingdom, and to dese, and cause to be deposed, the king from is royal state, title, power and government of this kingdom. : 
EYRE 12207 The eighth overt act charges these pereuns with “ preparing and composing divers books, pam lets letters, declarations, instructions, resolutions, orders, addresses and writings, and with dispersing the same, containing therein, incitements, encouragements and exhortations to move, induce and persuade the subjects of our said'lord the king, to aid andhe said, he heard nothing of any other sort assist in carrying into effect such traitorous subversion, alteration and deposition, and also containing therein, information, instructions and directions to the subjects of our said lord the king, how, when and upon what occasions the traitorous purposes last aforesaid, should and might be carried into effect. 
EYRE 12208 The ninth overt act charges the “ procuring and providing arms and offensive weapons, (to wit) guns, muskets, pikes and axes, therewith to levy and wage war, insurrection and rebellion against our said lord the king, within this kingdom. 
EYRE 12209 Forthe present, gentlemen, you will attend to the evidence, with a view only to the establishment of some or other of tliose facts which ase so charged as overt acts, the general effect ef the evidence I shall take occasion to state to you, with observations upon it, when I come to state. the whole of the evidence together. 
EYRE 12210 The first witness that was called, after the written evidence was in a great measure gone through, was William Camage, who said, he was a member of the society at Sheffield; that he became so the latter end of the year 1791; that he acted as secretary, he believes, five or six months ; he ceased to act in that capacity about the latter end of April or May last—he used to sign the letters, which were often written by others—the business of the society was managed by different persons—there was acommittee—the leading persons of the committee were one David Martin, who used to attend the committee ; John Allcock, George Widdison and Matthew Lodwin—they were 
EYRE 12211 ‘sons concerned in writing these letters— thatthe professed object they had in view, was a parliamentar felon thee they chose Matthew Campbell Brown a delegate to the Scotch Convention, and that he was sent to Brown at Edinburgh, by the Society to carry him cash. He says, there was, at first, a parliamentary reform proposed to be brought about by petition to parliament. Being asked what was theirnext measure, supposing peed ieee was rejected, he said, he never heard any other specific plan, proposed by Mr. Yorke, or pointed out by him. He says, the society was threatened to be dispersed in their meetings, by the people of Sheffield, by the opposite party; that they thought it necessary that they should have arms for their own defence; and he approved of it; he did not see any harm in the business; but they had a right to be armed for their own defence, against any illegal attack from that party, and to protect their meetings; this, he said, was the gencral idea amongst a great many, whose names he could not mention at present, he says, Mr. Yorke approved the idea. He was shown the blade ofa pike ; he said, it was shown to Mr. Yorke by Henry Hill, who is here as a witness, who is a shoemaker's knife forger ; as well ashe recollects, it was Hill who made that blade of the pike ; 
EYRE 12212 arms, and nothing of arms in any other coz. try; he said, he did not know of any quanutr being made, excepting three dozen, whi: were made, he believes, by Hiil; he sx. he saw a pike handle at Widdison’s; : was about eight or nine o'clock at night, wie: he went to Yorke’s about it; that no pen: was pregent. 
EYRE 12213 He says, he was at the meeting upc tix Castle Hill, at Sheffield; that, at that tm:, there was no recommendation of arms. He says, he knew Davison, who was servantGale; and he also knew Robert Moody. Yorte recommended, that parliament should not be petitioned ; he heard of an addre-s to te people; he says, that Yorke was drawn hex in a carriage, without horses ; be heard Yor disapprove of the Scotch Convention ; fa k thought the people were very much uoprjared. P Hc proves a letter produced, to be «dk Davison’s hand, addressed to Hardy, and th: he had seen it m Davison’s possesswn s: Sheftield. Davison, he says, came origins from Leeds ; and he acted as secretary ? Lecds. Le says, he desired thata letter fm Hardy might be directed to Moody; and ix eaid, the proper secretary’s name, wich Broomhead, was struck out, because the thought some letters to the secretary had bee: intercepted. He said, Moody put handles three ten pikes; they were somewhert about seven feet long, made of fir ; the blak about ten inches ; they were about the sim shape as a bayonet, fluted and pointed ; ther were none shafted, that he knew of, of a0 other shape; one was mide betore, which was not of that shape ; and, as well as be re collects it, that one was shown to Yorke. He said, that Davison is gone off. He is asked to a night cat; he says, he knows what its: it stands four ways; the use of it he sys & to act against cavalry, by being thrown wl the strect
EYRE 12215  threatened with interruptions in March, 1794; he never heard that the proposed convention was, to pnt down the king and the parliament, and to take upon themselves the functions of government; the Sheffield Society thought that the Scotch Convention would petition, and that the House of Commons would attend to the application of a large number when a small number of individuals might be neglected; that he should have thought himself the most abandoned of mankind, if he had continued a member of the society, if they had taken up such sentiments ; he said, he had never any reason to believe that there was an intent to destroy the constitution. He said, they were afraid of the opposite party making an attack upon them; they thought what they were doing was legal; they had no intention of arming against the king and parliament; he would not have remained another day in that society, if that had been the use intended to be le of these arms; but he thought they had a right to have arms for theit own defence, upon the Bill of Rights, against any of those people that might attack them: Yorke said it was so. He could not take upon himself to tell what the delegates of the convention meant to do. - He believes it was the cheaphess of the article that recommended the pikes. As to the cat, he did not know that any were made from the model ; he had seen some years ago, something of that kind at Neweastle; and, as he recollects, as to the time, it was some time about the American war; the letter alluded to in this man’s evidence, is addressed to “ Citizen Hardy, No. 9 Piccadilly, London. “ Fellow Citizen ; the barefaced aristocracy of the present administration has made it necessary that we should be prepared to act on the defensive, against any attack they may command their 1ewly-armed minions to make upon us. A pian has been hit upon, and if encouraged sufficiently, will, no doubt, have the effect, of furnishing a quantity of pikes to the patriots great enough to make them formidable, the blades are made of steel tempered and polished after an approved form ; they may be fixed into any shafts, but fir ones are recommended of the girt of the accompanying hoops at the top, and about an inch more at the bottom; the blades and hoops, more than which cannot be properly sent to any great distance, will be charged one shilling; money to be sent with the orders. As the institution is in its infancy, immediate eNcouragement is necessary. They have strvek nut “ Orders may be sent to the secretary of the Shetheld Constitutional Society. 
EYRE 12216 “ Sheffield, (Signed) Ricuarp Davison. “ April 24, 1794. 
EYRE 12217 o pet post suspicion, direct to Mr. Robert Moody, joiner, Cheney Square, Sheffield. Please to forward the enclosed. 
EYRE 12218 The witness ssys, Davison might have the same views for the people in London as the witness had in Sheffield; he says the pikes would cost about twenty pence. Being asked if he ever heard of such a place as the Parrot in Green Arbour Allev, London, he says he does not know any thing ofit. 
EYRE 12219 The next witness is William Broomhead, he is a cutler at Sheffield, and was a member of the Constitutional Society there at its first institution in 1791; he says he did not know that he was one of the twelve who were associated with the London Constitutional Society ; he has some idea of a letter having been written that they might act in conjunction, but never heard of the association ; he was secretary of the society in Sheffield for the last five months before he was apprehended, which was in April; he says the object of the society was a parliamentary reform, by meeting and endeavouring to enlighten each other, and to spread the knowledge of grievances, that they might unitedly apply in the most unexceptionable mode for a teform of parliament; the term universal suffrage he did not hear of till the Edinburgh Convention; he says he knows Yorke, w sometimes goes by anothcr name, by the name of Redhead, he resided at Sheffield several times ; he cannot tell exactly how long, the last time might be six, seven, or eight weeks. The witness knows Gale; he says Yorke used to attend the weekly mectings during his last visit at Sheffield, but he was not a settled inhabitant of the place ; that he was considered as a man of considerable abilities, and an orator, and treated with respect ; he said he wrote several pamphlets at Sheffield; he used to bring parts of them to be read to the society at these meetings. 
EYRE 12220 The society held these meetings in a small and in a large room; there was an elevation for the speaker, which some called the pulpit, some the tribune; from this tribune Mr. Yorke addressed the society. He was at the meeting upon the Castle-hill, Mr. Yorke was there, and expatiated very largely upon the corruptions which had crept into the constitution, or rather the evils complained of; he says his manner of speaking sometimes carried him farther than he ought, he was peculiarly energetic, fiery, very warm, very strong, but that he said nothing contrary to the law and constitution. 
EYRE 12221 He says it was settled ata previous meeting, that he the witness, should make a motion for a petition to the House of Commons, in order that it might be over-ruled, for the purpose of introducing another motion in its place ; he says he made his motion and it was objected to, with a view to the introducing another; he says there were four of them of the committee, himself and three more—that: several people were assembled ; the new motion was, to petition his majesty, it was drawn up before they assembled, for a reform in parliament; that Mr. Yorke addressed the people, that the petition was sent to London to earl Stanhope, but he did not think fit to] “ O Thou whose awful word can bind resentit; they afterwards agreed that Mr.| ‘“‘ The raging waves, the raging wind, orke’s specch should be printed; it was| “ Mad tyrants tame, break down the higt. printed and published at Sheflield; a printed} ‘ Whose haughty foreheads beat the sky; copy was shown to the witness, he believes . that which is now produced eae one; there Makcehare tine arm, great King of King, were some, he says, to be had at Mr. Gale’s an shop; he : says at their private meetings phat wonder-working arm whick broke 
EYRE 12222 “ Uy erst copies of this were directed to be sent to se- Ergo Lareys neck tiie Egy yan poe veral persons; several packets, tothe amount| “ Burst every dungeon, every chain, — of twenty-four or more were wrapped up sepa-| “ Give injured slaves their rights again; rately, put in a box, and sent to the prisoner.| ‘ Let truth prevail, let discord cease, 
EYRE 12223 5 ane ses vg he was applied to by one ohn Allcock to become secretary; he says he had nothing else to do, that the war had eee destroyed his business, and therefore he ac-| “ Resolved unanimously, “ 1. That wu. cepted it; he heard a report of arms in Shef-the wretched artifice of courts, is a systemfield ; that other people met, but he purposelyrapine and blood unworthy of rational being, avoided meddling, in thought or act, with anyand utterly repugnant to the mild andbese. matter of that sort; he heard of arms in thevolent principles of the Christian religion society, a few days before this meeting; it| “2. That if the present war be a war d had been spoken of as the right of the sub-combined kings against the people of Franc, ject to have in their power the means of de-to overthrow that liberty which th an fence ; he saysa spurious hand-bill had beenstruggling to establish, it is in our opinion s published in the town ; he says that the hav- ; war of the most diabolical kind. ing arms was spoken of as a right, he thinks| “8. That when public fasts and humilis it was after the meeting at the Castle-hill; tions are ordered with the same breath which he says it was at a public meeting of the so-commands the shedding of oceans of humm ciety; there were several other people who blood, however they may answer the purposes were not members of the society, they were , of state policy, they are solemn prostitution introduced by members as visitors; he saysof religion. he never saw a pike till he was brought to| “4. That the landing of Hessian troops 0 London, but that pikes were talked of; he this country (a ferocious and unprinciph saw a model of a night cat, which was only horde of butchers) without consent of pars like a play-thing for a child, that it had four, ment, has a suspicious and alarming appeal spikes, one Charles Rhodes produced it; that ance, is contrary to the spirit of our constite e conversation about it was not a serious tion, and deserving of the marked indignatea one, but he considered it as the act of a child, of every Englishman. — and it was talked of in acareless, idle way.“5. That itis high time to be upon om He says he remembers Yorke saying we guard, since these armed monsters may im a were in a low, despicable situation, and rather moment be let loose upon us, particularly 2s than submit to it, ho would go up to London the erection of barracks throughout the king: with the people that were there; this, he dom, may only have been an introductay says, he thinks was before the talking about measure to the filling them with foreign arms; the reason for his remembering this, mercenaries. ; passage was, the pain he felt at hearing any} ‘6. That the high and freeborn minds of thing of that sort said, for, he says, that for Britons revolt at the idea of such 2 slavish himself he fears God and honours the king system, and cannot be so far broken, a! He says that he has seen a pamphlet of the kiss the hand which would chain them toasort of this that was now produced; that: wilh upon the Fast-day the people assembledat the! ‘7. That peace and liberty are the of top of the town, that there were a thousand , spring of Heaven, and that life without thes or two thousand, and that they acted as des- is a burthen. cribed in that paper. The paper was found: “8. That the thanks of this meeting upon Hardy by Mr. Lauzun, and proved by due to earl Stanhope for his motion and spr this witness, it is an account of the Fast-dayited speech for acknowledging the Fre as observed at Sheffield, and of a serious Lec-republic, and restoring peace to our distress? ture which was held there, the title of it is, country, for his motions and able speech i2 “ Fast Day as observed at Sheffield, a serious , behalf of the persecuted and suffering patrols Lecture delivered at Sheffield, February the Messrs. Muir, Palmer, Skirving, aod Mur. 28th, 1791, being the day appointed for a ge-garot, in which he nobly stoodbr neral fast; to which are added a Hymn and ‘also for the whole of his truly animated Resolutions. benevolent exertions in support of the it The lecture turns upon the destruction ofrights of the people. . ie the priests of Baal. The hymn does not seem “9, The thanks of this meeting a th: to have any thing very necessary to be stated;due to Mr. Sheridan for his nervous, there are these stanzas in it: quent speeches in the cause of injured 
EYRE 12224 “ Speak—and the world shall smile in peace triotism, and in support of the constitution ; and also to every other member of parliament who has nobly stood forward at this important crisis in support of the constitutional liberties of Englishmen. 
EYRE 12225 10. That if any thing had been necessary to have convinced us of the total inefficacy of argument against a ministerial majority, the decisions which have lately taken place in parliament would have fully confirmed our opinion. 
EYRE 12226 “11. That therefore the people have no remedy for their grievances but a reform in parliament; a measure which we determine never to relinquish, though we follow our brethren in the same glorious cause to Botany 
EYRE 12227 Ba he 
EYRE 12228 To the next page—“ The London Corresponding Society united for a Reform in ParliamentCommittee Room, March 20th, 1794—Resolved, that the society approve the sentiments contained in the serious Lecture delivered -to the Cunstitutional Society at 
EYRE 12229 Sheffield, on the twenty-eighth of last month, and earnestly recommend it to the perusal of all who think civil and religious liberty a blessing. 
EYRE 12230 Resolved, that the comman:ling a general fast for the purpose of imploring the Divine Father of mercy and peace to support and prosper us in the horrid act of deliberately destroying our fellow-creatures, is repugnant tothe true spirit and principles of christianity, where we are commanded to pray for our enemies, &c. and farther considering that a great part of the people are unacquainted with the nature of the present war, either as to its justice or necessity, every endeavour being used to keep them ignorant of the real Principles and designs fur which it was commenced, to approach and to supplicate the Omniscient Power under such circumstances, and for such a purpose, must indeed be dreadful, since knowledge and conviction are wanting ; the worse than hypocritical hearts of those who are the authors of such a measure, although they at present impose upon the ignorant and credulous by such detestable, such pretended show of devotion, cannot escape the chastisement of that Power whom they thus insult, and from whose judgment there is no appeal. 
EYRE 12231 “ T. Harpy, secretary. 
EYRE 12232 The next paragraph is : ‘ Society for Constitutional Information, March 21st, 1794. 
EYRE 12233 “ Resolved, that the secretary of this society be directed to write to the Friends of Peace and Reform, at Sheffield, and to assure them, that this society views, with pleasure, their steady exertions to ubtain a fair representation of the people of Great Britain, in parliament, and the proper methods which they have taken to employ, usefully, those days which‘may be appointed for public fasts. 
EYRE 12234 “ D. Apams, secretary. 
EYRE 12235 This publication, and the resolutions thus entered into, on the Fast-day, at Sheffield, received the approbation of both societies, the Constitutional, and also the London Corresponding Socicty 
EYRE 12236 William Broomhead goes on with his evidence : he says, that the society consists of about six hundred ; that they never amounted to many more; certainly not to two thousand, they had been represented to be of that number in some papers, which led to this explanation. The distribution inte divisions, or sections, was not regularly kept; that they were to meet as they thought proper; but that they were to cullect a penny a week each, to ake a fund; he says, that that part of the business was not properly attended to; the district mectings were nvt regularly and properly attended to
EYRE 12238 They next go to the proceedings at Sheffield, in the open air, on the seventh of April, 1794, which are also in print, and were tound upon the prisoner, which, I think, should be read to you
EYRE 12240 I thought it necessary that the whole of this paper should be read, because the paper has been very much relied upon in the cause, and because different constructions have been put upon it by the counsel in support of the prosecution, and by the counsel on the part of the prisoner: the importance of it is not drawn so much from its general extravagance, as it is from the particular circumstance that it purports to resulve, that the body that were then assembled at Sheffield, would petition parliament no more, and would try some other course; what was meant by petitioning parliament no more, and what was meant by trying some other course, will be a sulject for your deliberations when you take this paper, with all the circumstances that preceded it, and that followed it, keeping in your minds, that this is a paper which was published among a very numerous set of people, assembled at Shefheld, just about the time that the proposition for a convention of the people was under consideration, in a committee of correspondence and co-operation of the two societics, the Constitutional and Corresponding Societies, in London, and that this paper was found in the hands of Hardy, the prisoner at the bar, the secretary of one of these societies; at present, I make no farther observation upon this paper, only recommendin; 
EYRE 12241 to you, as far as you can, to keep the genera! import of it in your minds, that you may understand the application of it, when it comes to be examined hereafter, on both sides. 
EYRE 12242 The original examination of Broomhead was finished by reading these papers; he was then cross-examined; he said there was a hand-bill circulated for the purpose, as he supposed, of exciting the people against the society; it was a call to the people to arm against foreign and domestic enemies; that the adverse party to him, aud his friends, at Sheffield, had given out, that they should be able to do nothing with him, nor his party, the society, till they could cause a riot; that, from this, he understood, that arms came to be talked of; that it was to oppose illegal force, such as had been used at Birmingham, and at Manchester; such as was against the law of the land; he says, Gale had, in his hand, the hand-bill, at the time they were talking of arms; and there were several resolves printed, in his paper, the week following, being a direct answer to it, mentioning something upon the matter. 
EYRE 12243 Being asked, if any of the people in this society to which he belonged, bad any idea of making any attack upon the king, or the House of Lords, or had any idea of altering the government, in that respect; he says, it was as much his intention to fly to the sun; he says, his object was, to enlighten the people; to show them the ground of all their complaints and sufferings, when a person worked for twelve hours a day, and could not get a living ; that was what he understood of it; their object was parliamentary reform; as such they corresponded with the Society of the Friends of the People, as well as the Constitutional Society; he says, he would not have been a member of this society, if there had been any idea like that of attacking the King, or the House of Lords; he does not think there was such a wicked man among them; that parliamentary reform, in the House of Commons, was their object; that the idea was, that King, Lords, and Commons might, with the concurrence of the nation, make a reform; that no one, in Sheffield, doubted but that the object was, to attain this pereetys and that there was no intent, to is knowledge, to use any force. Then he added, what wicked people might have done, in that case, he could not answer for; he says, he would not have sent a man there, as a delegate, if he had supposed he would not have acted peaceably. 
EYRE 12244 When he was re-examined, he was asked as to one Ashton, who had been secretary to their society; he said, they might have sent, for aught he knew, to the Friends of the People, to say, that they would have no more to do with them; and it might have been discussed in their meeting, whether they would have any more to do with them, be cause they were not fit for their purpose. Gentlemen, you will find, in the course of the correspondence here, a letter, which bad been written by this society, after they had correr ponded with the Society the Friends of the People, written to the London Correspondi or Constitutional Society, in which they say, that they did not care to have any thin more to do with that society, the Friendsa the People, not thinking them honest, He says, he does not know of a resolutica being come to, to write that letter; it might have been after he was gone ; he says he took some part in the debate, and does not believe that they, the Society of the Friends of the People, were honest; that though they bed promised to use all constitutional means, they were not satisfied with them; this might be about the twenty-sixth of May, 1792. After the hand-bill had been published, he says they published a counter advertisement, asd they took the same words in their counter advertisement, as had been taken in thi hand-bill, and had it inserted in Gale's calling upon the people to arm against invaders, and domestic enemies. 
EYRE 12245 He was asked, as he says they had ben threatened, whether, before they armed, they had applied to any magistrate ; he says, na. He states that Gale and Yorke, two of the active members of this society, proposed these papers, and that the society winked at ther doing it; by which he meant to convey, that they were more violent than they should have been; that they winked at their doing it, a having a good opinion of them, says, that the resolution respecting landing of He sian troops, was passed long before this baad bill; he knows nothing of the intelligence that was sent at the time to the London Corresponding Society, by Davison, nor beard any thing of it, till he was informed of it at his examination before the privy covodl He says, he cannot answer for every body was in this society; there wight be wicked men among all bodies; that as to this Davison, if he sent the letter, it was without his knowledge. There were then read tions of the date of the twenty-first of Marcb, 1794, of the Constitutional Society, and of the twentieth of March, of the London Cores ponding Society, returning their thanks for the lecture, and the proceedings, uj the Fast-day ; and the witness says, that the lecture was re-printed in London, in the yeat 1794. 
EYRE 12246 The next witness is Henry Alexander; be was a member of the London Corresponding Society, belonging to the division which met at Robins’s coffee-house, Shire-lane: thst be was the ninety-fifth member of that division; he became a member in November, 1195, Yorke also was a member of that society; he remembers Yorke being them when the 1000 
EYRE 12247 was quite full; there were between sixty and a on people; that Yorke took his leave of the society by a speech ;:that he talked of going to some place, which he called Bel-gsum; that he understood him, he was to head the French army, and that they would be ripe fur a revolution by Christmas; what was really said, how this man must have misunderstood, we cannot very well guess, but to be sure it could not have passed exactly as he understands ; and what he meant by, “ they would be ripe for a revolution by Christmas ; whether he meant, that the ap of the world, where he was poing, would be ripe for a revolution, or whether he meant, when he came home, they would be ripe for a revolution, does not at all appear, by this man’s evice, any way that you can depend upon; but, he adds, that he hoped to come to London, at the head of them ; that is, I suppose, the French; and he talked of having the honour of being a member of the convention, in France ; he hoped he should come at their head, hither; that the society would join them; that Mr. Pitt’s, the other ministers’, and the king’s heads, should be upon Temple Bar; that the king and queen of France had met with what they deserved; that the Sans Culotes were a set of brave fellows; and he hoped, when he came, that the society would not sbrink from what they pretended to be; he said, it was impossible to do any thing without some bloodshed ; he said, that there were a set of brave men at Shefiield. 
EYRE 12248 He says, that the night before this conversation , there was a ian at the meeting, who came from Sheffield, who said there were pikes at Sheffield, at six-pence a piece ; another man answered, that it would be right to have some; it would only be living upon bread and cheese for one day. After this the witness says, he went and discovered what he knew to Mr. ‘Dundas, and: the lord mayor, for he thought it was proper government should be let into the light of it; he was first asked to go to their place by a friend of his, one Smith, a delegate; he was asked to be made a member; he was there seven times in all; and this is the whole of his evidence. You see the substance of it is, he gives an account of a ve extravagant conversation, supposed to have been held by this Yorke, at the meeting ; what you will make of it, is for you to judge, 
EYRE 12249 Upon his cross-examination, he says he was a linen draper; he resides now at the Rose, in the Fleet Market; that it was at the latter end of the year, 1793, when a friend asked him to go with him to one of those divisions; that Whitehorn said Smith had asked him; that Smith, Ashley, and Baxter, were there; that nothing happened to offen him that night; some papers were read; Whitehorn bad belonged to a Society in Holborn, which. the witness did not know till afterwards; ‘that, for his-part, he never wished fox a reform in parliament; he said, that he had read a which. they gave him, to two or three of his friends; he said, he went the second time to see what they were upon; that he had not, at the first time, been desired to po but that he had been twice after he had en at Mr. Dundas’s; he says, they all shook hands with Yorke at parting. 
EYRE 12250 He says, he is not now in employment, and has not been since May; he hed been a few months at Mr. Kellerby’s, in Finsbury-square, who was a linen draper then; he has since let his shop to another person, and carries on the tayloring business; he had been before at Mr. Faulder’s, a linen draper’s, in Holborn, almost two years; he says, he was lately engaged with a Mr. Marley, in Holborn; he left him on Friday last, telling him he was going out of town; the reason, he says, for’ 
EYRE 12251 loing that was, that he thought of going to Sheffield, and it would not be convenient to pretend to remain in place, when he could not stick tu it. He was asked, what passed the other nights ; he says, he has no particularremembrance of any thing; but the third or fourth night he saw Yorke; ie heard Yorke say, he been to Newgate to see Mr. Frost; he never heard Yorke mention any thing about pikes, and he says, he does not ‘ think Yorke was at the meeting the night that the pikes were talked of. 
EYRE 12252 Gentlemen, if much depended upon the credit of this witness, there certainly are some observations that go to his discredit, upon this cross-examination ; at the same time he is not contradicted as to the facts which he hassworn, by any person that comes from the division ; it is not possible to say, that his evidence is not to have re; paid to it, having regard to it, still you will take it with those allowances that you ought to make for an account of the sort that this man has given, which is notvery correct, and not very intelligible, in every part of it; it does seem, upon the whole, if his evidence is to be depended upon, that Yorke was at this meeting; that he was then going somewhere, and he talked extravagantly, and of coming to London to head a revolution, sometime about Christmas, and hoping the society would join with him, when he did come; what is to be the effect of that upon the whole of the case, you are to judge. 
EYRE 12253 Thomas Whitehorn says, he is shopman to’ a bookseller; he became a member of the London Corresponding Society the same evening with the last witness; he says, he was there four times; he saw Yorke there once; there might be from forty to sixty people; another says, I think, from sixty to a hundred ; the room was full; Yorke seemed to be very well known; he made a very long speech ; he heard him speaking very loud; what it was, he could say nothing at all to, but he did understand something of his going abroad; he himself had lived with Mr. Owen, in Fleetstreet; afterwards he went to a Mr. Bagster, in the Strand; he saw Alexander after this, but that he himself left the society, having changed his situation, and it not being convenient to him to attend. You see he does not confirm the last witness, as to any thing Yorke said, but does confirm him as to the fact, that he was present when Yorke was resent, and when he made a speech, and that fe said he was going abroad. 
EYRE 12254 The next witness is George Widdison; he is a hair dresser and turner, at Sheffield; he says he has been a member of the society, at Sheffield, abuut two years; he saw Yorke there, at a meeting in Queen-street, not long after the execution of the king of France; he saw him at the Castle-bill, in the month of April; he used to dress his hair. It was the eneral talk uf the town, at the time the arms Bras began making, and he made a dozen of pike shafis for Gale; that Yorke inquired when they were mace; when he had finished one, he carried it to Yorke, and asked him, if it would du; he said, yes; he touk about a dozen and a half; that Mr. Wilkinson took them; he understood they were to be used in their own defence. Yorke used to say, he wanted universal suffrage, and that the sucicty were all for that; he says, there was not much disputing about the mode; that some weeks before Yorke left Sheffield, he (the witness) disagreed with him about this universal suffrage; he told him he thought the plan would not do, that they would carry it too far; to which Yorke said, “ I have studied it, and nothing else will do: he says, that there it ended; they differed in sentiment, and had no more conversation about it —he said, he expected to be paid for the pike handles by the people who took them. 
EYRE 12255 Upon his cross-examination, he said—that he was a friend, in general, to the king—that the society, in general, were—that he would Not have continued in the society if he thought they were not—that the first notion they had of universal suffrage was taken from the duke of Richmond's plan, which was read in the society, and generally approved of—he never understoud that it was meant to do any thing by force—that he did not think the people’s minds were prepared for it (by which 1 understand him tv mean, prepared for the plan)— be thought at first that it might be done without tumult or comtuotion, but that he had changed his mind. 
EYRE 12256 Hie says, he was with the society at the time of the Scotch Convention, and should have voted for the delegates, but he happened not to come in time—he understood that the convention would petition parliament, and address the nation—he said that a petition would come with more force, but he did not understand that the object of the convention was, to assume the functions of parliament; he would not have been a party to it if he had so understood—he considered himself and the society as altached to the king, and was of opinion, that the king’s preservation and the people’s liberties were inseparable—there was nothing said of arnss to attack the king and overnment—he does not know that he ever eard arms mentioned in the society—that he made a pike for himself, which he thougtt necessary—that there was not a very good understanding between the two parttes io the town, and that this precaution was taken against people who might come without lezaj authority from the magistrate. 
EYRE 12257 He says, that he had been threatened m different companies—that the aristocrats, 3 they called thein, said, if there was an invasiva they would destroy their enemies at home first, as the French did: to which the wit ness replied, that he hoped there was not any such idea; that if there was, they showd arm themselves in their own defence; aad therefore they thought it necessary to arm themselves. He said, that the House of Lords never made a part of their conversation; he had no thought of any reformation of that sort—he says, that Yorke was a man apt get warm in conversation, he had heard him speak, but he had noreason to believe that be was not well-affected to the king—with regard to Davison’s letter, he knew nothing ot it; and he admits that he was onc of the membezs who gave thanks to Mr. Paine. ‘ 
EYRE 12258 This is the first witness you have who speaks of this plan of reform, and what the origin of it was; and to be sure itis a lesson to men of high rank and consequence in the community, and who have situations .in which they may debate and promulgate their opinions upoa the political state of the country, how they cominit them to the press in the way in which this was committed; the consequence of which is, that itis in the power of any maa to disperse them to any extent: by whic& means they find their way into the hands of Persons tvo often unequal to the task of examining and discussing such topics, and they become by that means the source of infiuite mischief to the community—and, if this is the general history of this plan of reform, that has thus found its way imto the minds of the lower orders of the peuple, it is, say, alesson that I think men of rank and property ought never to forget. 
EYRE 12259 Gentlemen, the next witness was Henry Hill, a cutler at Shetfield.—He says, he was a member of this society in the year 1792
EYRE 12261 Upon his cross-examination he says, he would not have been a member if he thought they intended to oppose the king; he never heard any declarations of that sort at Sheffield ; the society always appeared friendly to the king; for any thing he saw by them he Tever saw any thing to make him think the contrary; all they wanted was, a more equal representation in the Commons House of Parliament: they followed the duke of Richmond’s plan—there were some pikes prepared, on account of the opposite party using such threats; that they have come in the dead of the. mght; they called the place where he was Jacobin hall, and they called them levellers and Jacobins—there were an armed set of People who paraded the street, and fired into people’s houses; when going home at twelve ’clock at night, they have shot under a person’s door—he says, that they never intended to attack the magistrates —he knows nothing at all of the vote of thanks to Paine. 
EYRE 12262 The next witness, Robert Moody, is a joiner, who also lives at Sheffield, and wasa member of this society—He says, they had district meetings, division meetings he knew Henry Yorke, he was sometimes chairman; he saw him at the meeting upon the Castle Hill; he thinks there were not fewer than ten thousand people assembled ; that the populace drew Yorke home; that Camage was there reading some resolutions, which he saw afterwards in the Sheffield newspaper; that Broomhead acted as secretary
EYRE 12264 Gentlemen, you see, here is a vote of ten thousand people obtained in this manner; and it is a remarkable circumstance, that the motion for petitioning parliament was concerted to be rejected in the meeting of the junto before they came there. This gives us an excellent idea of what a debate in such an assembly as that must be. 
EYRE 12265 The witness says, that Broomhead was secretary at this meeting—that Camage brought him four or five pikes, and bespoke. three dozen of handles; that the blades were brought afterwards for the whole ; that he did not inguire what they were for, nor did he know who they were for; that Camage said aman of the name of Davison was to take them from him; that he was to be paid ready money for them when they were done. 
EYRE 12266 —He remembers a report that they were to be used against people by whom they "y posed they might be illegally attacked; for report, and only report as he knew of, had said they should be dispersed—They had met frequently in large meetings, and many of opposite principles said they should be dispersed ; and that very likely they might. get some authority from the justice of the peace, for that a little might procure that; and they got these arms to defend themselves if they should be illegally attacked
EYRE 12268 He says, that the division, number twentytwo, met at the Three Tuns, Snow Hill, one evening, there were about sixteen of them, he was one (this was before the anniversary dinner); it had been proposed to the members to meet there to form an association like the Lambeth Association, but that no person agreed to it. 
EYRE 12269 He says, he understood that there was a secret committee, for the management of some affairs of this society; that this had been dissolved
EYRE 12271 The witness says, he was some time a dele‘gate; he attended the general committee of lelegates about six times; the delegates returned all the new members; that they had met dt Compton street, they were removed afterwards to Beaufort Buildings, to Thelwall’s
EYRE 12273 He says he was present at the theeting at Chalk-farm; that the meeting was to have been held in Store-street, Tottenham-court
EYRE 12274 [isig road, but they went from thence to Chalk. farm; the witness had a card, or ticket, fx his admissien, which he procured from the committee of the Corresponding Societs, Compton-street, on the Thursday night pre ceding the meeting at Chalk- farm; that Mr. Addington, a justice of the peace, prevented their meeting in Store-street; he supposes there were two thousand persons, or upwards, at Chalk-farm ; a person stoud at the doer to take the tickets; he tore the tickets in half; he kept one half, the other half was put in their hats
EYRE 12276 This is undoubtedly a most infamous ani detestable paper; what it points at is to plain to be mistaken; and how it is possibk it should have happened that a man who prefesses to have an object which he thinks lavudable, and other people may agree that be may think it laudable, should have disgrace? himself by the publication of such a paper ss this, is hard to smyself but whether it fairly cennects with the subject of the present Indictment, soas fairly to heinterwoven into the cunspiracy with which this pri8oner is charged, is another consideration, which you will weg": fully, and give it that weight which it deserves, and not give it more, enormous and scaedalous as it is, and deserving every punishment which the law can inflict. The witness says, he thinks he received it in October o November; if so, probably what he received was not dated the 1st of April, as this paper is, hut was dated the 30th of January; thst date agrees with the subject you see, and 5 not unlikely to have been the real date of this paper; whether he is correct im saying he received it in the month of October or Ne vember will depend upon his recollectioa. 
EYRE 12277 He says, that from Chalk-farm they west 
EYRE 12278 -to Conspton-street, where his division used to meet; they supped, and staid there till eleven o'clock; Thelwall was there
EYRE 12280 He was asked as to Gosling and Hillier— he says, he knows them; they came to his father’s house on the Monday, he mentioned 
EYRE 12281 ‘before there having been a meeting appointed in Green Arbour-court, to lay down money for the pikes ;the meeting was postponed to the following Friday. While Costing and Hillier were with him they heard that Hardy was apprehended (that accounts for their not having the pikes); he did understand they meant to have attended the meeting on the Friday—that fir was recommended for shafts to these pikes—he had a pike made himself: 
EYRE 12282 be destroyed the blade upon the Wednesday after he heard Hardy was in custody, being afraid it should be found. He was asked if he had a magic lanthorn? he said he had one—that it had nothing but the destruction -of the Bastile and the beheading the governor 
EYRE 12283 ‘ painted on it
EYRE 12285 Upon his cross-examination he says, he became a member of the Corresponding Sopeg July was twelve month; that he 
EYRE 12286 5 lea pike for himself in March, 1794—he says he heard Yorke at Robins's Coffee-house say, that they had pikes at Sheffield; and he says, he understood that severat members had furnished themselves with arms—he says, it i was just about the time the Hessian troops had been landed without the consent of parliament; but he says, he had no intention to 
EYRE 12287 ‘ use these arms against the government of the country—he meant to get pikes for some who might want them for the same purpose as, he says, he did, to defend himself in case there should be any illegal dispersions of the meet-ings, not against any legal power, but only against illegal attacks upon them; that a great deal of opposition had been shown to their meetings when they proposed to assoClate. 
EYRE 12288 He says, Hardy was always very quiet in the division; he never used any improper expressions; that Hardy made no propositions for arms or pikes; that he told Hardy, he had made a pike. He says that Baxter gave that bill, La Guillotine, to two or three persons; and he, wishing for one, got that which he produced ; he says, he does not know that Har. fascial that; he does not think he would have approved of it; the first bill was of another edition. He understood Hardy knew who the persuns were to whom he was to send for pikes; he says that the pikes were made at the time the Hessian troops were landed. He had notice that there were some spirited Resolutions by the Sheffield Society; he learnt it from a bouk he purch at Eaton’s shop
EYRE 12290 Now, the material fact upon this young man’s evidence with regard to the prisoner, is, that it adduces pretty strong provt that the letter had been received by Hardy from Davison, and that he had, in some sort, acted upon it; whether he had proposed it publicly at the division, or no, yet that he had such a letter, and could tell them where those pikes were to be got; in consequence of that, he madean application to Hardy; and in consequence of that applicatiun, there was to have been a meeting at the Parrot in Green Arbour court, where as many as chose to have pikes were to pay the money; which certainly connects Hardy with these pikes, so far as that transaction goes. 
EYRE 12291 The neat witness is Samuel Williams; he says, he is a gun engraver; that he was a member of the Londun Corresponding Society; he knew Franklow; he saw hinyin his own house ; he was also a member of the Corresponding Society; that Franklow had applied to him to make some arms tor him; he saw the feast advertised, and went to Hardy fora ticket ; Hardy said, it was not usual to give tickets to those who were not me nbers ; he ave him one of the addresses, and said, it was for a reform in parliament. The witness says, he gave Hardy an order forsome shoes, which Hardy made; and then he told Hardy, he was in a line for selling guns; Hardy desired him the next time he came, to bring a gun with him; he broaght him one; Hardy sold it, he then gave Hardy «n order for a pair of boots; Hardy bid him bring two or three guns, which he sold likewise; and one gun was in the house, which was not sold, when the prisoner was apprehended. 
EYRE 12292 He says, he Draws Spence, of Little Turnstile; he had seen Franklow there; he went to Spence’s to instruct persons in the manuat exercise, at the request of Mr. Frankluw; that they exercised in a one or two pair of stairs room, between eight and ten in the evening; and he thinks that the curtains of the room were down; they used to mcet on Thursday night. He says, he became a member by Mr. Hardy’s recommendation, ahout a fortnight or three weeks after his first seeing him, He says, he knew a society called the Loyal Lambeth Association ; that was the association to which these people belonged ; 
EYRE 12293 he says, he went to exercise. them at Frank-of the fact; they were members of the Lonlow’s house, No, 1, China Walk, Lambeth :don Corresponding Society, and therefore, a that Hardy gave him Franklow’s card, andfar as the matter went, were providing them told him, Franklow was ging to raise an as-selves with arms, and, as far as the circunsociation, and would want guns. He says,| stances went, using themselves to the prarthere were articles of this Lambeth Associa-tice of arms ; how far the prisoner is, under tion printed; they imported that it was anthese circumstances, to he unplicated im thas, associalion of the inhabitants of Lambeth;you will judge. 
EYRE 12294 but he says, that this association was not The next witness is Frederick Polydor composed, in fact, of Lambeth inhabitants; }-Nodder; he says, he was a member of the he knew that only Franklow was an inhabi-.London Corresponding Society; he says, be tant of Lambeth. Franklow disciplined some saw Williams at Spence’s, when men were at his house himself. The witness says, heexercising ; that same of them were members supplied eleven stand of arms. Franklow-of the Corresponding Society, He only goes paid for all the muskets but one; there wereto confirm Williams, as to his having see to have been sixty stand of arms. Williams at Spence’s, exercising men. 
EYRE 12295 The printed Articles were produced, which Williams was called again. He says, thet describe how they were to be armed; and it| he remembers a avangs conversatioa m states, that the inhabitants of Lambeth wereHardy’s shop, about how long would be bein getting a thousand guns ; be said, that it was a thing far beyond his capacity, to meapeg such an order; and therefore there was no more conversation about it: I de not thmk much is to be made of that; the man wass stranger ; Hardy did not appear to join in the conversation; it seems to end im nothing; and I do not think you can connect it so asmake any thing out of it; therefore I do ont mean to state it as a circumstance upon whxb you can raise any thing. 
EYRE 12296 The next witness is George Sanderson, who says that he was at Shelmerdine’s, in the Borough, upon the second of April; he says, be went there to decide a bet; that he saw there, about seven or eight stand of arms, and some men exercising, who belonged to an armed society; that they were members of the Londua Corresponding Society ; that their numbers were about twenly-six or twenty-seven; be says he might have seen about twenty-icur or twenty-five together at Shelmerdine’s; he says they objected to him because he was not amember of the London Corresponding Se ciety, but they admitted him upon his promising to become a member ; he understood that they were to obtain a reform of parizment at the point of the bayonet ; be does not mention who said that, nor what the particular expressions of the conyersation were from which he collects that, but that he collected it from their general conversation. 
EYRE 12297 He says that they adjourned to the house of one Day, in Worcester-street, where there was a private committee, who had settled certain places where they were to assemble, he says that one of the meetings was at Spence’s, another at a shed in Westminster, near Tothill Fields Bridewell; he attended Pretty constantly; sometimes at ‘s sometimes in Westminster, from the eleventh of April to about the first of May ; they were taught the manual exercise by one Ost, whe had. served la pe Franch my a sq a member. of the Correspo! fe say8 that Shelmerdine was a hatter, that he frequently changed his men; and be end one reqson for removing from Shelmerdine’s, alarmed with apprehensions of an invasion and civil commotion; that therefore they Meant to associate ; that part of them met at the Borough; that a condition of the association was. not to go beyond the parish of Lambeth ; that they proposed to divide into ten divisions. He says their conversatiqn was about a parliamentary reform ; but, from conVersation with Franklaw, he understood, that, if they did not get a reform in parliament, they would have it ly force of arms; that none but members of the London Corresponding Society attended this Lambeth Association. 
EYRE 12298 You sce, this man speaks of guns, which he supplied to Hardy and to Franklow, for this Lambeth Association ; with regard to what he supplied to Hardy, I think you can hardly raise much implication from that upon Hardy; it isa mutual concern in trade; this man begun it by buying shvues of Hardy ; and he intimated to Hardy that he was in the gun line; in consequence of which, Hardy gave him an order, and he gave Hardy another order; and then Hardy gave him another order, and he disposed of muskets for him, which he might do, for all that I see from that part of the case, very innocently ; Lut it has somewhat of a different complexion with respect to Franklow’s Association ; for, if any thing is to be objected to that association, there Is something to object to Hardy, for having given this man a card to Franklow, gad mentioning his association. 
EYRE 12299 Now, that this association was to be objected to, is evident from the circumstances of the case; for, you see, this is an association carried on in a private and clandestine manner; they meet in small parties, exercising in a room, ata late hour, the curtains down, and circumstances of concealment, and a concealment, very contrary to what might be expected in the ordinary case of an association, where people are proud of their arms, and of appearing in their uniform ; so that nothing seems to account for their proceeding in that clandestine manner; therefure the Lambeth Association seems an assumed name, and not warranted by the real circumstances was, that they thought some of his men might not be staunch to the cause; that was his expression. 3 
EYRE 12300 He says he was one night at a meeting of the division in Shire-lane, a member mentioned a circumstance which was: mot proeeeded upon, and therefore does not seem to amount to much; that Mr. Pitt was to go over one of the bridges at twelve ofclock at night; somebody pe) it was very improper to make any comment upon that, and nothing more passed upon it; he says there had been news of a defeat of the British army, which they of this society treated as good news; he says that one of them said he had the pleasure to inform the society that one of the king’s messengers had been killed in the country ; another said if it had been his own son should have been glad; he savs there were frequent intimations to take care of spies; that there was a proposition that ten should meet at one house—that is; nine of them to meet at the house of the tenth; they talked of blowing a spy’s brains out. The witness was asked what he was, if he was not a spy— he says he was; that they were talking of a reform of parliament at the point of the Dayonet ; that that appeared to be the intention of this armed society from the general conversation. 
EYRE 12301 Now the circumstance mentioned by this witness of the manner in which these people were shifting about under the direction of a Secret Committee, to be exercised in small numbers at different places, with the observation that was made in regard to Shelmerdine’s frequently changing his men, with the apprehension that his men might not be staunch to the cause, certainly warrants very great suspicion that this armed society was forming for no good purposes, and that this is, therefore, a circumstance which does make part of atie case which is now under consideration; pr it is,Ithink, if this evidence be true, impossible to suppose that this was a regular volunteer society, who were only arming themselves for these ostensible purposes exalti in these articles; they state strange language to have been used by these people, you will judge what credit is due to that evidence ; if they did use such language, it shows that their minds, at least, must have been in 2 state of very creat irritation, and that they had designs not fit for honest men to entertain, and which must create real apprehensions in the minds of all those who know that such designs were conceived by such men. 
EYRE 12302 Edward Gosling, who was also a member of the Correspwnding Society, says that upon the fifteenth of Anril, 1794, he was admitted a member; that Mr. Wickham, a magistrate, had desired him to he proposed; that he went to Hillier to inquire after a man he happened to know that was a member of that society ; he says what led him to go to Hillier was, that having seen seditious pamphlets there, he thought he might be able to leartt frorh him where this man was; he says that he concluded ftom the circumstance of these pamphlets being sold there that he was a member of the Corresponding Society. —that led him to inquite of Hiller after thts tan; he sdys, he was proposed without any communication with the magistrate; but he attended afterwards in order to discover whether they really had atty intention to arm. 
EYRE 12303 He says that the division he belonged to was number eleven, meeting in Northamptonstreet, Clerkenwell, he did not recollect: the sigh, but the man that kept the house was named Holt; he says that there was some conversation about the meeting at Chalk Farm, which had been on the day before that it was said to be necessary to arm for the purpose of defending the Convention as they had done in France. 
EYRE 12304 If this was a fact well established, it would be a very strong faet indeed in the case, because wheri you once stippose the idea to be that the Convention was to meet without arms, to act peaceably and in order, and that the others were to defend them with arms, that would give that Convention a complexion to be sure of a very dangerous nature indeed, and would go a great way to warrant every thing that has been said of it. But you wilt remember that this very strong fact 1s stated by a man of Gosling’s description, to whom some exceptions in point of credit lay, the weight of which you will weigh in your minds. 
EYRE 12305 He says that the Convention was to be called in about six weeks; that they talked of repelling force by force, if Mr. Dundas should bring his Scotch laws into England; that the expression used was, “ The infamous and ever to be detested Court of Justiciary in Scotland; he says that there were one or two hundred thousand copies of the proceeds ings and resolutions of that day ordered to be printed. 
EYRE 12306 On the Monday after this, he says he was at another division mecting at one Mortis’s, a jack-maker’s, in Brick-lane; that division, he believes, was called number sixteen and twenty-five; doctor Hodgson was recommended by the committee to be relieved; he says that he and Hillier went to see this doctor Hodgson, who, I take it, was at that time in Newgate; they found Lloyd, Roussel, and a captain Williams, an Amcrican, with Hodgson; there was a conversation with doctor Hodgson, he asked the witness if he had seen a copy of the new constitution, by which this Corresponding Suciety was to be divided into small divisions to learn the use of arms at one another’s houses; that it was almost ready—that they were to be called tythings —that their object was, to keep spies from getting into the society ; their numbers’ were tncreasing, and they would soon be irresistible. The witness observed that there were ne men of property among them, to which Roussel made this reply, that as soon as they were organized, money should not be wanting. That will also be a very strong circumstance in the case, if you should be of opinion that this witness is deserving of credit. He says that Lloyd gave a toast— “ The world a republic or a desart. Doctor Hodgson said he hoped soon to see a Revolutionary Tribunal established in this country, for he hated all others; Roussel said he was going fram thence to Thelwall’s, and he should set off next day. Hillier asked if he was going to France, he said, yes. 
EYRE 12307 The witness says he was that evening at the division he belonged to, the eleventh division, that one Wright, a delegate, was there; that when he was coming away, Wright asked him if he had got any arms? he said no; Wright told him it would be necessary that all should have arms, as possibly we might very soon be compelled to use them ; he says Gordon was their secretary, that Gordon said he was going to America, that he was very sorry to Teave the society just as they were going to act as well as tu think, and to regeDerate their country; that he should take some copies of their spirited resolutions to be delivered to the popular societies in America, Hillier mentioned his not having got a musket, but he said he had got a pike. 
EYRE 12308 He says on the twenty fifth of April he was at Hillier's house, number eighty or eighty-one, in Bishopsgate street; that there was a person there whose name he was told was Wicksly, and there was a drunken man there, and a man of the name of Bennet; Wicksly said he had received a letter from Shetheld, stating that there had been a numerous meeting there, and that they had determined to petition no more fura parliamentary reform ; that there were some knives making of a particular construction at Sheffield; that the letier contained a drawing of the knives, that they were to be fixed to poles, and they talked of their use being to cut the reins of the horses; that the principal dependance of the society consisted in securing the royal family and both houses of parliament. Hillier said if they could resist the first shock from the army, there would be no danger afterwards: the king being secured, the army would have no head to look up to, and would be gine to accept the additional vay that would be offered them; that men would not fight for six pence a day if they could have a larger sum; he says that nobudy objected to all this. He says when he was going away, Bennet went out with him into the street; that his conversation was so violent, and he spoke su luud, that he the witness checked him, for that persons walking by would take Dotice of what he said. 
EYRE 12309 He says he knows Baxter, that on the ninth af May he had a material conversation with Baxter at Hillier’s house; he says Baxter stated that he had been with Mr. Joyce, who was secretary to earl Stanhope; that Baxter, 
EYRE 12310 ; why do not you blow them all up 
EYRE 12311 Bennet, and Hillier were at Hillier’s, and some other persons at a part of this conversation; Baxter said there was no danger to be apprehended for Stone, that is the apprehended for high treason, for he too much firmness to let them get any thas out of him: he said that the mittee of Correspondence and Co-operation were preparing an address to the army, with some fe solutions, and he said that prudent and dete. mined men were wanted to 2 the opinions contained in those resolutions; be said that one Moore had been active and successful in getting over the army; that they had most to fear from the young recruits, they had succeeded best with the old soldiers; that if one-third of the army were got over, the others would not do mach. Then the fact was mentioned of Baxter's hav. ing an interview with some officers; that Baxter said one of the officers said to him, together. He says, that Baxter asked him if he knew who would buy a pike, the witness said, he should have no objection to purchase cee, but it would be of no service unless he knew how to use it; he says. Baxter said, if be would go the Thursday or Friday following, to the Parrot in Green Arbour Court, in tbe Old Bailey, and ask for one Edwards, be 
EYRE 12312 ; would be called out to him, that he was to tell Edwards that Baxter had sent him, thea he was to have a pike, and that he would be introduced to others with whom he might learn the use of them, that Edwards was a very clever fellow, and could teach him, that pikes were much cheaper than muskets, that muskets could not be supplied on account ef their expense —and that people might do mischief if they did not know how to use 
EYRE 12313 ‘ them. 
EYRE 12314 ‘The witness says, he observed they might have a parliamentary reform without coming to blows, upon which Baxter said; “ Is there a man in the society, that believes a parliamentary reform is all we want? No, not one —he said that many men of property bad hitherto kept back on account of the sanguinary conduct of the French, but that they were now willing to come forward, as they were convinced a revolution might be effected ina few hours—that he, Baxter, did not wish the king or any of his family to lose their own lives, he thought they might go to Hanover, but that it must be expected that some blood must be shed, for some poreuler persons bad offered such insults to the people that human nature could not overlook. 
EYRE 12315 He says the conversation afterwards turned upon Thelwall’s having been indicted, in which there was nothing very material —He said he attended most to Baxter’s conversation, because he was informed he was one of the Committee of Correspondence and Cooperation. Baxter said many thousand pikes were making at Sheffield, that the heads were only to come from thence, and that they were - to be stecked in town; -he recommended that ? pothing of that should be mentioned at any. of the divisions, till the new constitution should be adopted, for there were spies in the society; that it would be adviseable to let the French prisoners out, if the emigrants resisted, that the emigrants should share the fate of the Swiss at Paris. He mentioned the names of Mr. Pitt, Mr. Dundas, Mr. Reeves, and other persons who had offered such insults nto the poorle that human nature could not everluok. He says, in going home with Baxter, he oe tood from. conversation he had with him, that the address to the army, was to set the troops and the emigrants, to be embodied, -. at variance, and they were to say to the army, that they had sworn to fight for the king and ; country, and if they were at variance, the might choose which side they pleased; that it would be proper to enlarge upon the severity of their usage, and the smallness of their pay, ba they must first sound their principles, and if they found the soldiers were Aristocrats, thea they must not go on. He saysthat with Tespect to all these circumstances, he comMunicated them from time to time to Mr. Wickham, that be gave him intelligence of woat ro On his cross-examination, he is asked what “ situation he was in, he said he kept a broker’s shop—he is asked if he did not deal in king’s ; Stores, he said he did say to a man to whom he was unwilling to give his name, that he dealt in naval stores, thinking that would put the man off from any farther inquiry—he says that he is employed by a magistrate, in Worship-street, which occasioned him to say that—he denies that he lived by smuggling, and cheating the king io his stores. "He was asked if he ever went by the name Of Douglas; he says he did for six years, while he carried on the business of a hair’ dresser, which is ten years since, in Petty France, at No. 3. He says his fatherhada shop of business in the city, that hewisbed to go out for improvement, and did notlike to appear as a journeyman, when his’ father kept four or five men in his own house ; that his taking the name of Douglas, was a mere accidental circumstance. 
EYRE 12316 He was asked if he knowsa Mr. Lincoln, whocollects rents for Mr. Macnamara; he sayshe does, and that he borrowed from Mr. Lincola, four or five years ago, ten pound, or ten guineas, and gave him a note for it, in the name of Douglas, while he bore that name, which has been since paid. He says Mr. Macnamara caine to him to the coffeehouse, where he and the other witnesses were; that he behaved so ill to him, that he was much flurried, and did not know what he said; that Mr. Macnainara came to the coffeehouse to him, and said that the note would appear against him if it was not paid. 
EYRE 12317 He was asked whether he not by inflammatory expressions, excited these people to say the things which he had stated—he says that he may have appeared to have approved of what was doing, but he never did approve of it — particularly that he never said, “ why don’t the society learn the use of arms. 
EYRE 12318 He is then asked as to a Mrs. Coleman, who had lived with him, and died in his house; he says he made her will, and that no partofher property was left to her relations —he is asked if a brother of a former husband had not made some charge agaiust him—he says he never heard any complaint, or an charge against his conduct respecting the will, but that a brother had come up to make a claim. He is asked if he knows one Cox, cheesemonger—he says hehas dealt with him, and he did not use him very well, but nothing turns upon that, for he is not called. Then there was a print produced, which was found upon Roussel, it is an engraving of the manual exercise of soldiers, with caps upon their heads, intended to be painted red —you understand that it is the cap of libert now worn in France, and is a sort of signal, by which men who entertain these opinions may be known. 
EYRE 12319 Gentlemen, I stated to you before, that this witness has given very important evidence, tending to show the determined purpose of this Convention to use force against the king, his family, and the government—If this man’s evidence can be depended upon, he certainly states Baxter to use very strong language, so indiscreet, that one could hardly have thought that a man would have ventured to use—and on the other band, the observation made upon this, is certainly founded, that this man is not contradicted with regard to the testimony that he gives, and that all they rely upon to shake his credit, is what turns out upon his cross-examination—the account he gives of himself, of bis having told a man that he dealt in naval stores, for a vile purose—having borne the name of Douglas— fering acted about in that sort of way, and going there for the purpose of firing information to government. gentlemen, it is your province to judge what degree of credit you think fit to give to this man’s evidence. 
EYRE 12320 The next witness, is Joha Groves—he is another man, whose credit is more directly impeached than Gosling’s has been, who also speaks materially, it his evidence is true. He says he was at the Globe tavern, on the twentieth of January, 1794; he became a member early in the month of February, he was desired to become a member, in order to make a discovery; he says there was a very large assembly, he believes Mr. Martin was called to the chair, who read an address, and Mr. Richter read it over again; he does not recollect any particular toast which was drank, but a great many were read; and by a paper that was printed, he should be able to refresh his memory—he says in general, the conversation was universal suffrage, and annual parliamentsthat their object was to enlighten men’s minds, to embrace opportunities of instruction, to learn the natural freedom of ali mankind, that-he heard nothing about arms. 
EYRE 12321 He says, he was present at Thelwall’s lecture ; that it was a general abuse of the administration, and the branches of the legisla: ture : he spoke of the king in terms of contempt; he used the word Solomon, ironically;. he said, that the House of Lords was an eristocratic branch, which swallowed up almost all other functions of the government; that he recommended a convention, in order to procure annual parliaments and universal suffrage; and that he recommended a new modelling of the House of Commons. 
EYRE 12322 He says, he was at Chalk-farm; Hardy was there; that Lovett was in the chair; that there were printed papers dispersed; there was a letter trom the Corresponding Society to the Friends of the People, earnestly soliciting the concurrence and assistance of that society, in assembling a convention of the friends of freedom, for the purpose of obtaining, ina legal and constitutional method, a full and effectual representation ; he says, the answer was read from the Friends of the People to the Corresponding Society, dated April the eleventh, 1794, and then their letter; a number of resolutions were put, and two hundred thousand copies ordered to be published. 
EYRE 12323 Groves says, he went to a house in Storestreet, Tottenham Court Road, where the meeting was to be held; he went part of the way with Thelwall; he says there was a written paper upon the dour of the house, in Store-strect, stating that the mecting was to be held at Chalk-farm; he says, Lovett was in the chair; the principal persons who spoke and acted at that mecting, were Lovett, Richter, Thelwall, and Hodgson; that Thelwall made two or three speeches; he says, there was aclamour went round that there were spies and informers there; Mr. Thelwall said, he was for admitting all spies and informers there, because the number of the members of the London Corresponding Society could be no agreeable news to the minister ; he says Richter read the resolutions ; that Richter stopt reading to make some observation of his own; upon which Hardy said “ read, sir, without comment ; this was when Richter was reading the address. 
EYRE 12324 The witness says, he returned to the division room, in Compton-street ; that ‘Thelwall was in the chair; that Thelwall, taking a pot of porter in his hand, he blew off the head of the porter, and said, this is the way I would have all kings served, or this is the way I would serve all kings. Being asked, if an particular toast was given, he says that Thelwall gave—The lantern, or Jamp-iron at the end of Parliament-street; he called for some one to cover it; to give another toast I suppose ; and somebody cried out,—The ‘treasury-bench; he thinks there was mo visitor there, at this time; ‘he says, that Green was a member, and that he liad a private conversation with hia in the coffee-room ; that be talked of annual parliaments and universal suffrage ; but he said, these were only to be considered as ladders to obtain their ends. 
EYRE 12325 He says, there was a kind of shed at Chalkfarm, in which they were eating bread and cheese, and drinking porter; that several people there pulled out a cutting instrumest, corresponding with each other; a sort of French knife, which when the elasp was opened, iLprevene its joint working, so that it was fixed straight forward ; that Pearce had one; somebody said, they were bread end cheese knives; upon that observation there was a smile; he says, he looked upon them as harmless instruments, certainly ; be asked, where they were to be had; they said he might have some of Green; he asked, where Green was to be found; they ‘said, he wass perfumer and hair-dresser, in Orange-strec, Leicester- fields. 
EYRE 12326 He says he went to Greent’s for one of these knives; Green said, he had sold between twe and three hundred; that Green teld him te speak very low; the parlour door was oper, which was adjoining the shep, and he smied, and said, for my wite is a damned aristocrat: that he attended the meetings regularly; tht Pearce, wheh they were at Chalk-farm, sad, if you strike with them, speaking of these knives, they wil not fly back, or words to that purpose; he says a man, from Sheffic’d, found fault with the construction of these knives ; he said they might be made better; that they were not equal to those at Sheikeld. 
EYRE 12327 He says, he was at a mecting, when a subscription was proposed for Dr. Hodeson, which application was rejected, on the ground of the violence of his conduct; and there was another reason, if the witness's memory wz right, that he was not considered as a member; he said he was present at the Crown and Anchor tavern, upon the second ef May; that there was a division meetinz in February, when an address from Stockpert, was read ; that was division namber two an4 number three, in Compton-street ; this beisz so late as the fifth of January, 1794, it will be proper to read that paper. 
EYRE 12328 Gentlemen, the whole of the paper, in point of general inflammation, is very bad: but & is the last passage which is materiully connected with the present case, and the date ss material, the fifth of January 1794. 
EYRE 12329 Jobin Groves went on to say, that the prisener came to his house, in Crown-court, Co vent-garden, and brought him a ticket for the dinner, on the second of May, at the Crcwn and Anchor; he said he paid nothing for it:was the annual dinner of the Constitetivnal Society, and there was a eertain number of the Corresponding ‘Society invited, about twenty in all he said there was some news came, while they were there, of some public event; he understood it was very bad news ; that it seemed to give universal satisfaction ; that there was a song, called “‘lhe Free Constitution, delivered out before dinner, and there was a paper on each plate, but he does not recollect what it was; he belicves Mr. Wharton was in the chair; that Mr. Horne ‘Tooke was. there, and the prisoner Hardy, was there; that when the company came into the room, the French popular tunes were struck up, and encored, and thev played ulmost the whole of the dinner, the Marsellois march, Ca ira, and the Carmagnol, and that it was a continual scene of clapping. 
EYRE 12330 He says, that after dinner Mr. Horne Tooke addressed himself to the company; he prefaced his address by an observation, that he supposed one out of fifty, in the room, might be considered as a government spy, and to them in particular he wished to address himself; and the witness says, in consequence of his addressing himself to government spies, he did attend to what he said; he begged the company to take netice, that he was not inebriated, for, having something to say to the company, he teek oare to refrain trom his pass and for fear of being mistaken, and eing taken to be in a state of intoxication, he begged every body present to take particuJar notice of what he said ; he called the parliament a scoundrel sink of corruption; and the opposition he called a scoundrel sink of opposition ; that a juaction betwen these two scoundrel parties was formed, for the purpose of destroying the rights and liberties of the country. He spoke about the House of Lords, the hereditary nobilzy ; he asked if that skipjack, naming a particular lord, could be considered as one of the hereditary nobility; he said the same of the House of Lords as of the House of Commons, he said the junto between the two parties was in order to amuse or abuse that poor man, the king; he said, that the junction of partics in the House of Commons, was in order to abuse and deceive the people of this country, He says, Mr. Tooke's speech was received with great applause ; that there was a song sung, to the tune of “ God save the king, but not those words: he says, that Mr. Horne Tooke sung an additional verse of the song; he had furgot what that was. 
EYRE 12331 Upon his cross-examination, he says he follows the business of a conveyancer, and has done so two and twenty years; he is not an attorney; he was asked, whether he was a solicitor; he said be did not understand what was meant by the question; at last he admitted, that he was a solicitor, in this Place; a solicitor for prosecutions and prisoners; he said, when Thelwall and he conversed, that Thelwall rather fixed himsclf upon him, than he upon Thelwall; he said there were a number of very respectable gentlemen, at the Crown and Anchor; that Mr. Tooke spoke highly of the hereditary nobility of the country; -he said, they .had lest their weight in the state, by the introduction of the new nobility, who had been introduced into the House of Lords, by means of their conduct ia the House of Commons; he said he spoke highly of the office of the king, in the constitution ; he said, that the new made peers, or those lately introduced into the House of Lords, either had combined, or were combining, for the purpose of amusing that poor man, the king; that the king had lost his true weight in the constitution, by means of this corruption; he says the object ofall his conversation was, that improper people were brought into the House of Commons, and that thereby the evil complained of arose. They then read a song, which was found at Hardy’s house, in a letter addressed to Hardy, without date ; that song must be read. 
EYRE 12332 Gentlemen, I would observe to you, upon this song, what perhaps may occur upon some other parts of the evidence. It was fairly observed, on the part of the prisoner, that there is a great deal of difference between this sort of loose paper, found at his house, in the situation he was in, as secretary to this popu society, to whom, therefore, all sorts of things would of course be addressed, which, perhaps, it would be prudent to destroy ; but every mam is not, in that respect, quite prudent; that there isa vast difference between this sort of thing, and a paper which bad been commus nicated, and acted upon, and made thereby the act of the party himself, by his own con duct upon it; the evidence could not be rejected, because the keeping such papers is some reproach to a prudent man, and affords some evidence of the improper connexions he forms, in consequence ot which all these sort of licentious things come to him. 
EYRE 12333 The next witness is John Thompson, whe proved the finding a pike at Hillier’s. 
EYRE 12334 William Camage is then examined again; he says, that he saw Margarotin the Tolbooth, at Edinburgh; that he had a spring knife upon his table; that it was hard to shut, and hy his description, something like these Sheffield knives; he says he never saw one at Sheftield; that this knife lay publicly for him to get his dinner with; there were six or seven peuple present; and it was showed te him as a curious knife. 
EYRE 12335 George Lynam says he became a member of the Corresponding Society, in October, 1792, of the division number twelve, at the sign of the Mansion House, opposite to the Mansion House; he says he received the rules of the society, and the address of the suciety, in March, 1792; having received these papers he intimated to the master of the house, that he thought it would be dangerous for him to permit the division to come to his house; that he, therefore, declined to let them come to his house; he says the division adjourned to the Crown in Newgate 
EYRE 12336 ‘street, and he was accepted. as a member of this society, upon the twenty-ninth of Octoder; he says he was at the Unicorn, Coventrden, at the division number two; that I take to be Hardy’s division; that there was a large meeting; the room was full; there might he seventy or eighty people there; Hardy appeared as secretary ; he says Paine’s Address tu the French nation, was voted to be published, and delivered out to all the divisions; that a paper called the Rights and duties of Man, was to be continued weekly ; that the delegates had received addresses, approving of the society’s address to the National Convention ; that the delegate of the division reports to the division what is done at the committee of delegates. Tt will be proper here just to observe how tbat stands
EYRE 12338 Barrere or Barlow; he seems to give buts blundering account of that, it certainly w quite another sort of thing)
EYRE 12340 Gentlemen, you recollect, that letter was read, and that when they did answer it, the answer was more guarded than some of the letters of the society ; it was. such an answer as might naturally lead one to think that there was some suspicion ; it is a curious aicumstance, that in the notes of this man, who attended the divisions regularly, and took notes as being a delegate, it should be noted that they suspected that letter from Norwich did not come from a friend, and that it was meant to draw them into some scrape. 
EYRE 12341 He then speaks of the branching of of s new division, number twenty-three, from number twelve; and this new division met at the Ship, in Moorfields, on the tweaty-seventh of November—he says, he was chosen a delegate of this new division he was recommended by his division; and it was pees at that time that the public should be it ed that they were not levellers, and that they wished to avoid all riots and all resistence: that this arose from the magistrates having interfered with their meeting—that the conversation was, that the first cnaracters at Edinburgh belonged to the cause, had themselves into a society, and called them selves a Convention of delegates. 
EYRE 12342 Upon the twenty-ninth of November, be says, he attended a meeting of delegates 2 the Sun, in Windmill-street; there were twenty-two delegates present
EYRE 12344 that division eleven had received twenty wis'
EYRE 12345 tors from Islington; that a society was intended to be formed there. The sub-committee brought forward their answer to the Crown and Anchor Society, which was referred back, and another answer was offered, drawn by a fe of the name of Vaughan, “couusellor Vaughan, who was a visitor then from the Constitutional Society, and this was approved with some alterations; the words “ dying in the cause were struck out; it was directed to be put in the Sunday’s paper; and that five hundred bills should be pasted up, ‘that they were not levellers—and if their funds were low, Mr. Vaughan said, the Constitutional Society would print for them
EYRE 12347 He was then shown a note, which he says, he received from Hardy; itis in these words —(addressed, Mr. Lynam, No. 31, Walbrooke; dated December the 4th, 1792)— “Citizen Lynam; you are requested to meet the Special Committee this evening, at seven o'clock, at the Nag’s Head, Orange Street, Leicester Fields. Iam, your fellow citizen, homas Harpy. 
EYRE 12348 “Please to inform any of the delegates near you, that you know, but no one else. 
EYRE 12349 This is a circumstance, in some degree, confirmatory of Lynam’s general evideace
EYRE 12351 Upon the thirteenth of December the delelegates inet in Round-court, in the Strand; cighteen persons were present; Hardy was one
EYRE 12353 Lynam says, his note goes on to state— That division, number one, recommends that it be represented to the public, that confusion may he expected, but that if riots ensue, our societies will aid the magistrates, and that copies shall be sent to the magistrates; but take care that we say, that no disposition appears of committing any riot, and that we will persevere in a parliamentary reform but if prosecuted persons were not found to be rash in words or violence, that it is proper for the society to protect them—he says, I do not know whether any thing was done upon that; there were many things agitated in the committee
EYRE 12355 He says, that division, number thirty-three, mct at Crown Street, upon the eightcenth of December; nothing passed there. Upon the twentieth of December, the delegates met at number thirty-one, Compton Street; Hardy was present; two members were deputed from the Constitutional Whigs to know if the Corresponding Socicty would concur in an Address to the Friends of the People. Division, number twelve, recommended to petition a liament before Mr. Grey brings in his bill for parliamentary reform—Martin recommended not to publish any thing ; that the times would not do; that they cculd not stand against the treasury. Number sixteen moves for the delegates to determine if they should sign the Address at the Crown and Anchor: and this was left to every man’s discretion; that is the address that had been formed there, by another party, in support of government; the question was, whether they should sign that Address; and this was left to every man’s discretion, but to avoid it, if possible. Margarot wrote to Cozens, that we will not sign at any of the meetings. 
EYRE 12356 There is a communication from Norwich, that five guineas had been sent up, in order to have Mr. Fox's speech on a parliamentary reform, sent down to the persons from whom the money came; and they were to publish some hand-bills, to express a determination to persevere. Five hundred copies of Mr. Fox’s speech were sent accordingly. Division number sixteen proposed to give tickets to soldiers, to admit them gratis, if they chose to enter ; but that they shall be warned of their danger: this was not agreed to. Division number twenty-four moved to publish our determination to support the magistrates, and persevere ina parliamentary reform: this was agreed to; and Margarot was desired to draw it up. A petition trom Carter, who was employed to stick bills up; that he lost a place of twelve shillings a week. Martin had been directed to defend him ; and there was a subscription to detray the expense. Ridgway had communicated, that he was ready to publish any thing the society chose to send him. It was observed by Margarot, respecting Mr. Fox, that he had gone as far as could be expected ; but that they were not obliged to him; for he was forced to avow what he had done. Martin reported that Gay had employed Carter to stick up bills; and that he had stuck them up in the morning, instead of the evening, as he was directed; in consequence of which, he was taken up. The next is number thirtyone, Compton-street, a meeting of the delegaics on the twenty-seventh of December. The prisoner was there. Each delegate was to take the sense of his division, on the propriecty of admitting soldiers, aud on what terms. ’ 
EYRE 12357 IIe says, upon the third of January, 1793, there was a meeting of delegates, at number thirty-one, Compton-street; Margarot was chosen president; Hardy, secretary ; Field, sub-secretary. ‘Lhe distresses of one Thompson’s wife were laid before the meeting; he was a member, but had gone away to France ; twelveshillings and sixpence was collected for her. There was a motioncame forward, for a declaration to the public; two divisions objected to it; the declaration was proposed to be published ; the objection was, because the declaration said, rather have a constitution without a king, than a king without a constitution: it was observed, that this would be a thing proper to be said, if they were republicans. Margarot reported that he had received a letter. Notice was given of five delegates from the Roman Catholics in Ireland, who were of the same mind with themselves; and the application was to them, to see whethera communication could be opened with them Hardy was present. 
EYRE 12358 The next is a meeting at the division number twenty-three, January the eighth, m Crown-street, Moorfields. He says, I have got down here, that the declaration—I sy pose the declaration mentioned before—it s the opinion of this division, that it should be rejected ; it was agreed likewise, not to address the king at all. It was said, Mr. Grey would not bring forward his motion fora reform, unless petitions were sent to parliament; agreed to petition parliament by all means, and not to address them. 
EYRE 12359 ‘The nextis a meeting on the tenth of January, 1793, at number thirty-one, Old-Compton-street ; seventeen delegates attended, of whom Hardy was one; the declaration was ordered to lie upon the table ; then it was agreed upon, that no written paper be brought in, but by a delegate, or throug the treasurer or secretary. Margarotreported, that the cous try correspondence did not shine ; there were very few letters; he reported that he had sent a letter to the Friends of the People, at Free Masons’ tavern: the answer was read; that they expected to obtain an effectual re form ; they were desired not to mix fore’ politics with home politics, and to avoid foreign correspondence. It was remarked, that this society, that is, the socicty at Free Masons’ tavern, never brought forward their prin ciples ; and it was determined not to correspond with them. Bell observed, that the address to the National Convention of France, proves that we mean their laws here; to which, according to this minute, Margarot said, no doubt; others said nothing. 
EYRE 12360 That, you see, is the most material of all these papers I have hitherto read to vou; that, in the course of the conversation at this meeting of delegates, respecting their address to the National Convention of France, Bell said, it proved that they meant the French laws should be established here ; to which Margarot said, no doubt; the others said nothing; Hardy was then present. 
EYRE 12361 He says, it was observed, that a plau which had been proposed, of the addition of a hundred members to the House of Commons, will not do; it will give them more advan! and keep us from a proper reform. It was reported that one of the Irish delegates had agreed to correspond. Ata meeting on the 14th of January, at Hardy's, Hardy said, he had dispersed fifty of our addresses, and twelve of Keirsant’s speech. 
EYRE 12362 The nextis a meeting of delegates, on the 17th of January, at number thirty-one, Compton-street. It was reported that nineteen of the divisions were kept up. It was that they were to debate, and consider whether the age of eighteen, or twenty-one, was the proper age for voting for a member of parliament: it was argued, it should be eighteen, because, at that age, they are liable to be militia-men. Division number twelve recommended to consider of a public meeting, to discuss parliamentary reform ; that was referred back again, for further consideration. Number four proposed thanks to the mayor of Glasgow, and to the society of Durham and Dundee, for uniting with the society. There were sixteen delegates present. A petition from Carter was presented, who had reccived sentence for sticking up a bill, supposed to be a libel. A special committee appointed to examine how his defence had been conducted. A motion was made for all the delegates to meet on a Saturday evening, to discuss political subjects. A letter was received from Norwich; the Friends of the People want to propose a mild reformation ; and this society of Norwich want to know whether they are friends. One Hobhouse had formed a society at Bath, and proposed a correspondence. Then it was proposed to correspond with the Norwich Society, through the means of the Bell Society. 
EYRE 12363 He says, on January the 24th, there was a meetingat number thirty-one, in Comptonstreet. Two gentlemen came with a petition from Thompson's wite. Martin thought it should be rejected. There was a conversation about the defence of the bill-sticker, and also an account of what counsel had been applied to, and who did undertake the defence ; there was an anxiety about the manuscript of this bill which had been stuck up, which had got into the hand of Grant. A letter from Richter, that he did not dare attend. The delegate number five is going to France, with some copics of Paine’s works; he had private notice that they would all be taken up. 
EYRE 12364 Upon the 31st of January, Baxter, the deJegate from number sixteen, proposed that, in future, of the quarterage money six-pence should go to the society, and the other sevenpence to go towards the expense of the room ; at was agreed that this might be a very proper measure to be adopted for the poor divisions, but not for the rest. It was remarked, and assented to by all, that, supposing there should be an opposition, and the two parties should come to an open rupture, it would be proper to encourage the two divisions, number sixteen, and number twenty-five, in Spital-fields, because they were very numerous, and it is necessary to keep them together. ‘hese are the divisions before mentioned to be as large as all the other divisions put together. This last remark, he says, he makes from his recollection. Number seven proposed to publish a letter, which had been written by a Mr. Law to Mr. Reeves respecting the business of an association ; but this was rejected; and another publication was proposed. The reply to the answer of the Friends of the People, objects that they were not explicit ; and they want to know how far they mean to go with their design ; and Lynam’s note is, that they were apprehensive of a breach. The general sense of the Friends of the People did not go as faras the London Corresponding Society, or Constitutional Society, who thought that it must come to a struggle : this, he said also was recollection. Margarot said, they were getting on fast again ; a petition is not the mode. Then comes a material passage —but yet, it was agreed a petition should be presented, to keep the public mind ayitated upon the subject of reform. 
EYRE 12365 He says, upon the fitth of February, the division number twenty-three, met in Crownstreet. It was reported, there were sixty friends to the cause, who declined, at present, meeting the society; but they are ood friends, and wish them success; that there were certain religious socicties in the kingdom, whose sentiments led strictly to republicanism ; they were numerous in several of the great towns; naming them; and particularly in London: and that the societies in London were just now beginning to organize themselves agreeably to the principles in France, and that they were to meet on Mondays and Thursdays. It was said that Paine’s works had been published in Sweden. 
EYRE 12366 The next meeting wason the 7th of February, of the delegates, at number eight, Queen-street, Seven Dials. ‘The prisoner, Hardy, wasthere. ‘They were anxious to preserve the divisions, sixteen, and twenty-five, as poor divisions; these were Baxter's divisions; that they would be of great service, if we should go to war; this was an observation of Margarot’s. Many said, it was eventually expected that there would bea rising in the country. A letter, sent to Bath, has been gone fourteen days, and no answer, though two letters have a sent. A Sheftield letter, of the 16th of January, by order of the Constitutional Society, had been conveyed to alk the societies, reljuesting to know how far they mean to go; and all were of one opinion not to petition this year. Hardy was present, and proposed that there should be a delezate from each division of the society, to agree how to proceed. Mr. Fox has observed, in the House of Commons, that the people have aright to alter the government when they please ; the Scotch and the Irish have done it. The London Corresponding Society were first formed to send a delegate to all the other societies, to determine the best way of reform. The Friends of the People, in the Borough, still exist, and were determined to communicate with this, and other societies, and inuire into their intentions. It was agreed that a circular letter should be sent to all the societies in London, to meet, two or three from each, and come to some determination. The question to be debated at each division, What is the best way of proceeding 
EYRE 12368 Upon the 14th of February, 1793, the division, number twelve, chose Mr. Godfrey as a delegate, who was rejected, being lord George Gordon's attorney. My note is, that there was another man in the division, connected with lord George Gordon, who was rejected, To be determined at the next meeting, whether they were to petition parliament; and the observation is, that it will engage the public attention for the present. Agreed to demand a conference with the Constitutional Society: they are drawing up the state of the representation, and are going as far as us. The Friends of the People do not go so far. The Borough Society dues not go so far. Holborn Society say, they are for Republica: 
EYRE 12369 -nism. The Aldgate Society is Lroken up; and most of the members have joined the 
EYRE 12370 Corresponding Society. ‘There were about six socicties in London to confer with. A letter sent to the Constitutional Whigs at Sheflicld, saying, there will be a conference about this matter, and that they will write to them. Three questions would be proposed for consideration—whether to petition the king—to petition parliament—or to call a convention. It was remarked that it would be well to decline coming to any resolution till the whole nation are agreed. Margarot says, they should neither petition nor remonStrate; it would be unconstitutional. Reported that the Aldgate Society had thanked 
EYRE 12371 Ir. Fox for his speech, saying, that the people might alter the constitution, without giving their reasons. 
EYRE 12372 The next is a meeting of division number twenty-three, held on the 19th of February, in Crown-street. The question was agitated, which was the right age for election, eighteen, or twenty-one; which was put to the vote. 
EYRE 12373 ame to a determination to petition parliament. 
EYRE 12374 On the 21st of February, the delegates met at Compton-street. Godfrey, who had been Tejected and re-chosen, was rejected again, but insisted he would not quit the place; therefore they had no other way of getting rid of him, but by adjourning to Charles -street. 
EYRE 12375 On Saturday evening, the 23rd, it was reported that a great number of delegates were in town from different societies in Scotland, upon a reform.The Constitutional Society have adjourned till the 15th of March, to see what Mr. Grey would do in parliament. Agreed to write to all the societies, to present a petition to parliament ; that their’s was to be prepared immediately; and it was expected they should have twenty thousand names to this petition. If this petition was rejected, they would write to their friends to continue, and then will be the time for all to unite, and to petition the king. The Fricnds of the People approve of Mr. Grey’s remonstrance. Reported that the bank's refusing to discount would assist the cause, by creating insolvency. A man pro posed to them, to subscribe to a book against imprisonment for debt; they refused to subscribe; but they agreed they would take ex tracts from it, that were worth publishing. There was a letter signed Jeremiah Carter, ar Curteis, the 15th of February, in answer tos letter of the first; and there was an answer to the Norwich Society, that they think the Friends of the People are friends to the cause. 
EYRE 12376 On the 28th of February, there was a meet ing of the delegates, at Mr. Stiff’s, in Paternoster Row. Margarot proposed thanks to Mr. Fox and the minority, and to lord Lavderdale, and that this should be advertised in the newspapers. Letters trom Sheffield, inclosing their resolutions passed on the 13h of February, by order of the committee. The witness gives Extracts of the letter; agreed to write to the Shetiield Society, that a petition to parliament, though it wun't suc ceed, at this time it will answer a gacd parpose. The London Corresponding Suciety are going to petition, and write to all the societies m this kingdom, to do so; it will cance the subject to be agitated every weck; nu time w be lost ; and say, we equally lament the war; Gerrald proposes a petition from the London Corresponding Society to be sent by Margarot to Mr. Fox to be presented. 
EYRE 12377 On the 7th of March fourteen delegates met, Hardy was there; a petition to parla ment produced, read, and referred to the div sions; on the 28th of March new delegates are to be chosen ; Mr. Freind’s pamphlet ea the war to be reprinted, and each division to have one; a petition to be drawn out on ralls of parchment, each delegate to have one, and to try what coffee-houses will take it ia to lie to receive signatures. Upon the atst of March, Baxter reported that there had been constables at his division ; a letter dated the 15th of March, from the Birmingham Society to Hardy, of which he gives extracts beginnin Citizen Hardy; reported that the Friends the People had received two letters from the Friends of Freedom; Grant and Littlejohn were dismissed from their situation as hono-, rary members of the Constitutional Sccietythat society wrote to this society for other honorary members; Grant was discharged because he refused to give up the manuscnpt, Margarot made a motion to print a thousand of Freind’s address to Republicans and Ant Republicans, to make extracts and strong remarks by Margarot. Upon the 28th of March there were seven hundred and eighteea signatures, and five skins are not yet brought in; a select committee chosen to make new laws and to form divisions; a select committee to consider of future regulations for the suciet: at large, and for the constitution of gene: 
EYRE 12378 rinciples. On the 11th of April two thousand nad signed this petition; wrote to the Friends of the People, thanking them for their ia partial state of the representation ; small bills were to be stuck up in the night, inferming the people where the petitions hay tor signatures. ‘ 
EYRE 12379 On the 29th of April there was the anniversary dinner of the Constitutional Society, at the Crown and Anchor tavern, lord Sempill in the chair. The witness says they talked very Boldly, and laughed at the fears of the public, and were sure a revolution would take place in this country. Then come the toasts—the Rights of Man—may Despotism be trampled under the hoofs of the Swinish multitude, &c. On the 2nd of May, a delegate mecting, number thirty-one, Compton-street, eleven delegates present, Mr. Fox wrote to Hardy that the petition which had been brought to him went toa radical reform, by which would be understood universal suffrage, which he was not a friend to, but he would present the petition if we desired it; they then desired Mr. Francis to present it; two of the Shettield delegates that brought their petition were made honorary members; Mr. Fox’s note was produced, but nothing turns upon that. 
EYRE 12380 At a meeting on the 16th of May, number seven proposed to draw up a remonstrance against the war. It was said Hardy had received an anonymous letter. 
EYRE 12381 Atameeting on the 23rd of May, twelve delegates present. It was proposed to call a pore meeting; there was a letter from ittlejohn on the 18th of May—proposed to have a committee to prepare an address— notice was taken of Le Brun’s letter to lord Grenville; this might be thought to have come from some communication with France, and they waited to see what notice would be taken of that letter. On the 30th of May, Hardy moved to break up for three months, which was not carried. 
EYRE 12382 Upon the 6th of June a public meeting was advertised five for six; thanks were voted to Mr. Wharton for his speech—agreed to be printed, and comments to be made upon it; Margarot to get a thousand copies of Mr. Wharton’s speech. ‘The witness says he ceased to be a delegate from the 15th of June. 
EYRE 12383 He says he attended division twenty-three on the 25th of September—reported that there was a new society at Coventry, which was increasing, and that there was a new division of the Corresponding Society that met at the Grove, in Bandy Leg Walk. It was stated that Cruden, of Walworth, had written that offensive paper called La Guillotine; it was remarked that he was supposed to be employed the Convention in France. It was reported that there was a petition to the king brought forward at the last meeting of delegates, but it was declared by Mr. Vaughan to be treasonable; in consequence of which another was prepared; eighteen new members were made that week; Bell was going to Ireland, and would establish a correspondence there ; a petition was brought forward azainst the war; Hodgson was chosen President, and Hardy continued secretary. 
EYRE 12384 On the 24th of October there was a meeting in Hackney-road to elect two delegates to be sent to the convention in Scotland, Margarot and Gerrald were elected. On the 5th of Nov. it was reported that Hodgson had resigned, and that Baxter was chosen chairman; that Margarot and Gerrald went to Scotland on the 30th of October ; that the funds were low, the subscriptions not equal to the expenses; that another delegate be chosen fom each division, to form a sub-committee to revise the constitution; report of a new society formed at Bristol; that colonel Macleod and Sinclair were gone as delegates to Edinburgh from the Constitutional Society. 
EYRE 12385 Then, gentlemen, you heard of an association at Lambeth, to learn the manual exercise; the plan was not matured; these were members of the Corresponding Society, who were desirous of learning the exercise. That memorandum respecting the association at Lambeth is so far material, that it speaks of that association as a thing that had been only then heard of for the first time, and had not originally proceeded from the committee of delegates. 
EYRE 12386 On the 12th of November a division meet. ing, number twenty-three. Read a letter from Norwich approving the convention at Edinburgh; that the finances are very low, and a second subscription is wanted to support the delezates in Scotland. There is a kind of memorandum, or sort of instruction for the delegates; a letter is sent to the delegates requesting them to visit all the societies in Scotland. The witness says, that at first he thought that what was said of the finances related to the Norwich Society; but lookin; again he rather thinks that it relates to his own society; reported that there was to be a second general meeting to he held at Edinburgh, but afterwards it w2s altered and intended to be held at Glasgow: there was a letter read, dated the 8th of November, from Hardy to the delegates in Scotland. 
EYRE 12387 On the 2nd of January, the witness attends again as a delegate; they resolved to remove the committee room to number three, in New Compton-street; that no person who had not belonged three months to the society to be elected a delegate ; agreed to draw up a handbill approving of the conduct of the delegates in Scotland, and censuring the justices; to distribute a thousand in Edinburgh; a letter was read from Sheffield, signed William Broomhead, chairman, recommending them to come to some spirited resolutions to be adopted for the support of the delegates immediately; it was said that at this meeting there were about two thousand. 
EYRE 12388 The next meeting is the 9th of January; he has not got Hardy’s name down at present, but believes he was there ; there was to be a general meeting on the 20th for dinner at the Globe; a sub-committee was appointed for the management of this meeting, the names put down for stewards were, Thelwall, Franklow, Agar, Kydd, Lovett, Hurrison, Stiff, Peacock, Harris, Sinclair, Powel, Williams, Mitchel, Pearce, Moore, Moffatt, Mar«. 
EYRE 12389 tin; those who dined were to pay 5s. 6d., and those who did not dine only paid 6d. for their tickets; another sub-committee to be apjointed to write to the societies to unite in an address to the public on their invaded rights, by the procecdings of the magistrates at Edinburgh, and to discuss the conduct of Mr. Dundas; the witness Lynam was reported to be a spy; he was tricd by the committee of delegates, and acquitted by a great majority. 
EYRE 12390 The witness says he was at the meeting on the 20th of January at the Globe-tavern, Martin was president; when they were assembled the floor gave way; he was there before the business began; they went to a room above stairs, there were Martin, Ramsay, Richter, Thelwall, and Hardy there. The short-hand writer reported Margarot’s trial; an address to the nation was carried, and then they adjourned to dinner, Thelwall was chairman; the witness dined in an adjoining room; the witness came again into the large room soon after he had dined. 
EYRE 12391 There was a meeting of delegates at number three, New Compton-street, on the 23rd of January; the prisoner was there—agreed that hand-bills be stuck up, saying what grievances we wish to redress, The next thing that came forward was a box for the subscription for the support of the delegates in Scotland; it was opened that night, the amount was 13. 4s. 5d. and nine bad shillings; it was pet to publish the names of those who had given evidence against the patriots; this was objected to by Thelwall, as it might produce massacres. It was proposed at that time to choose two sub-delegates to attend the perpetual committee to watch the parliament every night; this proposal was Not carried; it was proposed that the committee should be made perpetual. 
EYRE 12392 Upon the 30th of January, a meeting of delegates, Hardy being present, division number eleven recommended to divide the metropolis into divisions; number thirteen moved to recommend it to those who are not members to subscribe; number eight wished to know if they should remove into the Borough, that press-gangs were about, and they had lost their business ; Thelwall moved to a point a permanent committee of delegates to consider of the measures to be pursued during the present posture of affairs, and to be a secret one; those of the general committee of delegates already chosen to be filled up by other delegates, to be invested with discretionary power to report to the committee of delegates, but the committee of delegates have power to dissolve them when they please; the secret committee were Martin, axter, Williams, Thelwall, and Moore. This secret committee were to consider what measures were to be adopted, and to call a general committee of delegates when they thought proper; a sub-committee of three proposed to consider of raising subscriptions for the delegates in Scotland, referred to the secret committee with full powers; Thelwall peo posed a committee of two as a committee exigence, to report to the general committee, but not to publish any thing—but this was withdrawn ; a letter stated from Bristol from old friends new revived. 
EYRE 12393 On the 6th of February, at a meeting of delegates, Hardy being present, a mobca from the permanent committee to appoint others who are not to be known. The witness’s memorandum is, that as it was dan gerous, they were to be dissolved, 2nd to name others, and their names not to be mentioned. 
EYRE 12394 Gentlemen, this shows you the progres: of this appointment of a committee; it had zone to the appointment of a secret committee, to act in the then posture of affairs; that the secret committee were afterwards dissolved 9 this extraordinary way, but they were to name another secret committee, whose names were Not to be known; so the business was to be conducted by a secret committee, who mizbt probably be the same persons, but could uot be known by any one to be the same persons, and the ground of it is, thatit was thought to be dangerous. What the secret committee were to do is matter of observation upon this extraordinary proceeding. A letter was re ceived in a parcel from Sheffield from Margarot, dated the 11th of January, and a letter was received from Gerrald for a short-hand writer to be sent down to take his trial. 
EYRE 12395 At a meeting on the 20th of February, number eighteen moved to reprint the Rights of Swine; a committee of seven are to revise the new constitution of the society ; resolved that 50,000 hand-bills of lord Stanhope’s speech respecting the foreign troops be priuted, and to return him thanks. After this time the witness says he ceased to be a delegate. He was then asked who and what be was; he describes himself to be an ionmonger, and to be in the commission hne; that he was first among this society by accident at the sign of the Mansion House, where he saw some of the resolutions of the society ; he told the landlord that this appeared to him to be a meeting to overturn the constitution, and advised him not to let them meet there any more, for if he did that he would have his licence taken from him. He says he went into the room and conversed with Watson; he refers to a paper which the landlord sbowed him which was the resolutions and address of the society. , 
EYRE 12396 Upon his cross-examination, he says farther, that he is in the commission line, and has done business -from Birmingham and Sheffield; he says he is now epelying ie business in the East Indialine; he has seven years in this way in a small d however he did a great deal of business lat season; he had a warehouse in Wood-street, he removed from one house in Wood-street to another, and from thence to Walbrook, where he has been ever since; he has not been in theretail way since he left Alexander Shrimpton and Company; that the resolutions and addresses were first published upon the twentyfourth of May 1792; he says that when he was tried for being a spy, there was nothing Particular brought forward against him. In that month, he says, he went into Staffordshire and Yorkshire for some time; that he consulted with a friend, who recommended to him to makea reportot these transactions, and he has done so from time to time; he thinks the first report he made was on the first of} October, 1792; he made his reports to one whom he was certain would communicate those reports toa proper channel, but that Rerson was not a magistrate ; he says he put own every thing he could; that it was his duty to do so, for he was to report to his own division, and he gave the same reports to his division, according to his notes, as he had given into thatchannel by which he meant to make a discovery of all that had passed. 
EYRE 12397 Gentlemen, it has been a fatiguing work to go through these broken accounts of the transactions of the society from this man’s Motes, and the accounts must necessarily be somewhat imperfect; but upon the whole they carry with them very great marks of authenticity; and with respect to those facts which can be clearly collected from them, they scem to be very weightily proved, and I cannot imagine that the evidence of this man is shaken in any particular whatever, from the mere circumstance of a man, otherwise of credit, choosing to give information of proceedings which he conceived to be dangerous to the constitution of the country; to say that thatis to affect his credit, 1s not a thing to be asserted in a court of justice, nor fit to be encouraged by a jury. Wherever men of this description give evidence, and they give their evidence ina way which is fairly open to observation, the circumstance of their coming to give their evidence in this manner will have its weight, but if their evidence in other respects is uniformly consistent and probable, and is not impeached, it is not cnough to say that this man went inte this society on purpose to inform the magistrate of what was passing. It is extremely necessary that should be done; it is the duty of magistrates to watch over the public peace, if any thing material is going forward by which the public peace of the country may be affected; it is the duty of the magistrate to use all proper means to bring these proceed-ings to light, in order that they may be brought to the test of the law; and he would be criminal if he did not use those means. 
EYRE 12398 The next witness is Maclean; he produces a letter found upon Adams, the secretary of the Constitutional Society, dated the thirteenth of October, 1792, from the editor of ; the Patriot at Sheffield, directed to John An-drews, secretary to the Society of the Friends of Universal Peace and the Rights of Man, at Stockport. 
EYRE 12399 This letter, though of a pretty old date, seems to have deserved attention; it shows the extraordinary diligence and attention with which the making prosclytes to this cause, was pursued in that part of the country, as well as in many others. That letter and the answer to it must be read. 
EYRE 12400 Gentlemen, the next witness is John Coates ; he says he is an apprentice to Franklow, who lived at number one, China Walk, Lambeth; he says he was bound apprentice in November last; that Franklow used to be out late of nights; that there used to be exercising with tire arms up stairs twice a week, about eight o’clock in the evening; that Shelmerdine and Williams were two of the persons who used to be there, there were about eight or nine of them; he supposes them to be the same persons, the window shutters were shut; his master used to go to Worcester-street, in the Borough, he does not know what he did there; he says the arms they used at his master’s house were kept on the first floor, he did not know where they were put after his master was apprehended ; he remembers seeing cartouch boxes in the cutting room, they ‘lay upon the board; he once saw his master in regimentals, and that Williams had a uniform, he saw his master in regimentals one Sunday morning in the house. 
EYRE 12401 James Walsh was at Chalk-farm when Richter read the resolutions; he heard the word convention mentioned by him, and that they had formed a correspondence with different societies in different towns; that was all he could speak to, except that two hundred thousand copiesof the resolutions were to printed; and he says that Thelwall spoke very violently. 
EYRE 12402 Thomas Green was the next witness; he says he isa perfumer, that he also deals in knives and cutlery ware; he says it is customary for perfumers to deal in such articles ; he says he had knives with a catch in the back, he had three dozen of them from Sheffield, packed in small parcels, he sold fourteen of them, he can name three or four persons who bought single knives, one was the prisoner at the bar, and that he sent him six others ina package; that he was to make choice of one, and if he could dispose of the rest he might; he did not book them, and four of them were returned after Hardy was apprehended, he had not called on him before ; he said he sold one to one Mr. Billington, and one to Groves; he had them from Scotheld and Company, at Sheftield; that he had dealt with another person in Sheffield; they have riders; one happened to bring patterns of this kind of knife, which before he had seen in shops in the Strand, and other places, and so he ordered a parcel; he says ho docs not know how Hardy came to know that he had them; he says that in Compton-street he ate his supper with one of these knives,Pearce had another which was rather better Gnished, and which he had not bought of the witness. 
EYRE 12403 Upon his cruss-exanination, he says he used such a kuife as this seven years ago ; that he has tweuty of the three dozen he bought left now; most cutler’s shops have them ; that he sold them in the common ! 
EYRE 12404 course of his trade. As to Groves, he says he came to purchase a knife, and he remarked the utility of the knife; he did not tell Groves that he had suld two or three hundred of them, but Groves asked him if le had sold many, he told him yes, he not liking to discourage the sale of his own goods; he says he did not desire Groves to speak low, because the parlour door was open, and his wife was a damned aristocrat, he did not use such ao expression; he did nut desire Groves to speak low; that the knives lay openly in the glass case for sale; he says he did not keep them to scll to mischievous people, and he does not recollect saying a word about his wife, or using the word aristocrat, and that he never wished to conceal from his wife that he sold these knives. 
EYRE 12405 Now here, undoubtedly, there is a flat contradiction between him and Groves; they are both witnesses called on the part of the crown; they certainly put you under a dilemma, and make it difficult for you to be satisfied that Groves is a person who is entitled to credit for what he has said; at the same time though Groves is contradicted in this particular by this witness, he is contradicted in no other particular where witnesses might have been called to contradict him, that is a circumstance for your consideration, upon j : , i members the fact of their dispersion—he says which you will exercise your judgment, I am not not at all pressing you to incline to give more credit to a witness who has been contenor of his evidence upon the whole entitles him to. The next witness, is Edward Hodson, a printer; he declined answering whether he ‘ 
EYRE 12406 printed a particular paper which was shown to him, but he admits that one Hodgson applicd to him to print it, and brought the manuscript. It is a hand-bill respecting the Ins and Outs, that we are in danger from the French, and from the Hessians and Hanoverians, in cither case we should get arms, and learn how to use them—you recollect the paver, -He says, that from all he observed, has no reason to suppose that they had any thing but areform ot parliament in view, that it was no part of their plan to attack the king, he never heard any such thing, or to displace the Lords—he would not-have continued a moment longer in ihe society, if he had supposed any such thing. He says, that upon Hardy and Adams being taken up, and reports being in circulation, ES A A ET 
EYRE 12407 “ See p. 837. 
EYRE 12408 that under pretence of reform, they bad other objects in view, he left them—be sis he understuod the Convention was a th sz not determined upon—that they were to take the advice of the societies in the country, whether they were to assemble a conven —he says there was no idea of their makmng laws, or introducing the anarchy of Frauce into England—he became a member im the month of February—he says he has read printed copy of the resolutions at Chalk-tarm, e has seen a printed copy of the pirceedings on the twentieth of January; he DO thing of their having any thing to d with the works of Paine—that several peorie applied to him to priat the proceedinz at 
EYRE 12409 ; Chalk-farm. 
EYRE 12410 The next witness, is George Ross, of Ecmburgh; he says he became a member of the Society of the Friends of the People in Ed:0burgh, about the end of the year 1793 ; that he was a member of the British Conventwa; he says he made a mistake at first, as to the year, it was in 1792, thathe was made a member; that at the end of November, the beginning of December, 1793, the delegates from other socicties in Scotland attended, and some from England; he says he re ceived some letters from one Stock, in Edm burgh, who was a member of another socet: of the same nature; he says he sent several of thenrinto the country; onetoa 0 of the name of Miller, at Perth, which is now produced; he sent one to Strathaven, and one to Paisley; he is not certain whether be sent one to Dundee; he cannot be certain whether he was present at the vote of unto that they came to in the Convention, whes they extended their hands; he says he reis the the circular letter produced which was sent by him, to diffarent parts of tradicted in one particular, than the whole Scotland. 
EYRE 12411 Upon his cross-examination he says, that his only object was, a reform in the House of Commons, he never thought there was an intention to attack the king’s person, or his prerogatives; they did not at all consider themselves as the parliament of Great Ba tain, but they meant to consider of proper means of petitioning; he says he perceived nothing of any other intent; nothing was said against the king, that he heard; he says it would have been foolish enough to attempt to make laws to bind the people—he says the British Convention consisted of about two hundred persons—they had no arms to at tack the magistrates ; there was no prepara tion of the means for resistance : he said they had nothing illega] in their thoughts ; if they had thought it illegal, they would not have done it, or if they hal thought it dangerous to the king, they would not have done it He says the Convention consisted of le of all ranks, smpstly people of good character, people of sober lives and good morals; says he does not recollect being present ata patculer resolution inquired after; he says, thinks he was present when the resolution was come to about the Habeas Corpus Act, to meet at a place to be appointed by thesecret committee. He says, Downie was a member of the society; he understood theConvention of Emergency to be called to pe- , tition parliament; that he would not have agreed te a convention upon any other terms; that he understood they were to specify a particular refurm in their petition. 
EYRE 12412 Arthur McEwan says, he lives at the Water of Leith, he remembers the dispersion ef the ; convention by the magistrates; that a large committee of union met in consequence of it, of which Watt was a member; there was another committee, a sub-committee, called a committee of Ways and Means; that Stock, Bourke, Aitcheson, Bonthron, Downie, Watt, and hiinself, were of that coinmittee, to look into the affairs of Skirving ; he never saw theletter inquired after. 
EYRE 12413 He says, that Watt read to them a plan to seize the lord justice Clerk, and the rest ofthe lords of council and session, and the lordprovost of Edinburgh; to kindle a fire at the ; Excise-office, in the New Town, and that par-ties should be stationed in the street, to intercept the soldiersas they came down from ! the castle; the fire was todraw the military from the castle; coming down to a point, ; they were to be inclosed by two parties; that different parties were to seize the banking houses in Edinburgh, and commissionerswere to be appointed to demand the cash , from the banks; he did not know who were to execute this, only the sub-committee were j present when this was disclosed ; the witnesssaid, he objected to all this, he would not! agree to any thing that should disturb the peace, or shed the blood of his countrymen; that Bonthron agreed with him, and no farther communication was made at that time. He says, atanother meeting Watt produced a copy of a proclamation, prohibiting the removal of corn, grain, hay, and meal; that persons were not to remove the same from ! their respective places of abode; there was a copy of an address to the king, ordering himto dismiss his present ministers, and to putanend to this bloody war, or else he might expect bad consequences to ensue—this was to be sent to the king, on the morning afterthe attack. The witness said, these things did not belong to the cause of a reform, andhe would have nothing to do with it. 
EYRE 12414 He says, he went with Watt, to Robert ; Orrock’s, to bespeak pikes; Orrock sketched out one, Watt said, he had four thousand to send to Perth, besides what he had to distribute about Edinburgh; Stock was of the committee, he said he was going to London, or Bristol, and would wait on Hardy by the desire of Watt, who proposed to send a [etter to Hardy; Stock undertook to take this letpondence was to be conducted, something wag to signify, that the aristocrats were doing so and so, and the democrats so and so; Stock was to call again upon Watt; the witness saw him no more, 
EYRE 12415 Upon his cross-examination he says, that parliamentary reform was the object of the society; that the society to which he belonged, consisted of about twenty; that he attended the convention about half, a dozen: 
EYRE 12416 nights ; that they meant to obtain a parliamentary retorm, by a petition, and that it was to have come under consideration, the night they were dispersed. You see there was a scroll of a petition brought forward, and & negative put upon it, in a certain way, by calling for the order of the day; but in that story of his he must be mistaken; he says it was to come under consideration the night of the dispersion; that there were near two hundred members; that they had no arms he never heard of an intention to use force ; that the rctorm most of them spoke of, was universal suffrage, and annual parliaments, and some were for triennial parliaments; he says, there was nothing said, touching the King, or the Lords; he cannot undertake to say, what that committee of union was for, he did not hear that it was for the purpose of establishing a new convention ; he says Skirving’s letter was read at a meeting, and a sube committee appointed. He says, he heard the delegates were to lave another convention, of the time, and place of meeting of which, they were to get information ; he could not say as to the purposes of the new convention. 
EYRE 12417 William Middleton says, he searched the’ house of Watt, on the fifteenth of May, but nothing turns upon that. 
EYRE 12418 Gentlemen, this was the evidence they gave of a conspiracy breaking out in Scotland, after the dispersion of the cunvention, which it is insisted upon by the attorney general, makes a part of this general plan, in this country; that by possibility, Hardy's circular letter, or some other of Hardy’s publications, or the publication of the Sheffield committee, or of the Constitutional Society might have excited this, is certainly true, and therefore the evidence could not be rejected ; but as to the bringing home to the prisoner, Hardy, that he was implicated directly in this conspiracy, the evidence docs not appear to me to go that length, for all the conversation ahout a letter to be carried by Stock to Hardy, comes to nothing, for Stock never did deliver that letter; Muargarot and Gerrald,. who were delegates with Hardy’s participation from the Corresponding Society, do not appear to have been involved in this conspiracy—they were, I believe, in custody at the time, and upon the whole, therefore, that does rather seem to have been something that broke out in consequence of the general irritationwhich had been so improperly produced by ter. Stock took a slip of paper, and gavethe pains that had been taken throughout the him some token by which this same corres-country to irritate it; but I do not see any thing that makes it probable, that Hardy, personally, was concerned in this part of the conspiracy, or that he knew any thiag at all about it. 
EYRE 12419 Gentlemen, the next witness, Schaw, produces a paper, found upon Thelwall, and Nost produces a paper, fount! upon Martin; these two papers are proved to have been Martin’s hasdaecliivng they were found after Hardy’s apprehension; but they become evidence even in this ease, against Hardy, from the eircumstance of their having been proved, by two witnesses, to have been in Martin's possession, before Hardy was apprehended ; they were, therefore, papers that existed before that time. 
EYRE 12420 Now this paper purports to be projected fesolutions for the meeting at Chalk-farm ; they differ essentially from the resolutions that were agreed to, and appear to be of a more direct and violent east than those resolutions were, because they point immediately to the person of the king; it will be proper that you should hear that paper now’read, 
EYRE 12421 ‘ Gentlemen, what is conveyed by that last rosolution? That itis the bounden duty of the people to punish all traitors against the nation, and that the following words are now not a part of the oath of allegiance—‘ That it is not lawful to take arms against the king ; a more dangerous and more treasonable paer, one has hardly ever scen: of this paper have to remark, that there is no evidence which directly brings it home o the prisoner, Hardy, but the evidence stands thus—This has been manifestly a draught of a resolution which, in the mind of the drawer, was intended for a meeting of the London Corresding Society, about that time ; the date to 
EYRE 12422 Wt is the fourteenth of April; upon that fourteenth of April the Chalk-farm resolutions were proposed; the paper was found upon Thelwall, who was present at the Chalk-farm Meeting, aud taking an active part there; suoh a paper, therefore, found upon Thelwall and Martin, two members of this society, seems bubtco manifestly to prove what the ideas were that were floating in the minds of these people, at the time of those resolutions; and they certainly show, that very dangerous designs were coneeived by some of those people, to be brought forward, at that time, In some shape er other: how it was settled— in what consultation—by what persons—there is no direct evidence; that you can only gaess at; they are persens that usually transacted the business for this Corresponding Society; you know who they were; Hardy was a principal one
EYRE 12424 (iss these persons, there was danger, of the ma alarming degree: of violence, that one as hardly ventute to contemplates it leads to: Gegree of wickedness, that one could Hardy suppose to be possible
EYRE 12426 The first witness is Florimond Geddy; he says, he is 2 member of the London Caresponding Society; he was of the same & vision as Hardy, number two; he says, bextended very regularly; he dves net keor that he missed ange for two years; hess. that he ceased to be a member when Hatr was taken us that Hardy was very nny absent; that he was perfectly well acquaint with him; that he hardly ever miss i upon him on a Sunday; that he wasar markably peaceable man ; a friend to orde: that when the meetings were dis , Har desired that they would not even sign with them ; that his object was a pari tary reform in the House of Commons, ai that it was no part of his view ta make ay alteration in the House of Lords ; that be meant nothing agamst the Crown; God fu bid that he should; that there were frequat conversations upon political subjects, whid he had with Hardy ; that curiosity induced him to ask a number of questions, and Never supposed the prisoner had any views different from his; he says, he never heard ci the letter trom Sheffield about pikes; that hs brother introduced hjm ; he was at the Globe tavern; and at Chalk-farm; that every thiog was very peaceable; that there were soxe resolutions in print, and that the paper co tained a cprrect account of what passed; be thought that all that was transacted, at bob places, was agreeable to the law of the land. 
EYRE 12427 He says, it is true, that the society sent de legates to the Scotch Convention; that bisself was notin office; he has heard ofa secret committee ; he never heard who thcy were; he ducs not think that the body knew who the secret committee were ; he knew nothing of their proceedings, and he did not choose 1 attend after Hardy was taken up
EYRE 12429 The only observation that occurs to me, upon this man’s evidence is, the distance at which he seems to have been kept from all knowledge of what was doing; there was a secret committee, which seem to have managed all the material concerns of the society; end it is remarkable, that this person whe was connected with Hardy, did noteven know ery thing with regard to the cireumstance of the pikes; whetier Hardy’s not communicattug it happened mercly by accident, which I think most probable, or whether there was any reason tor not letting this man into the business of the pikes, is a goed deal uncertain, wpon this state of the evidence; but, if other people were let into it, why this man was not as not easy to see. 
EYRE 12430 Francis Dowling says, he was a member of this suciety, and belonged to Hardy’s division; their only object was, a reform in the House of Commons; they had no thoughts against the King or the House of Lords; they had no idea of opposing the government by force. The object of the convention, he says, was, to the sense of the delevates, from different ivisions, to obtain a reform in the House of Commons, and that there was no intention of proceeding by feree in any meraler of the society ; he says, that he was two years and a half ia the division, and never saw or heard of a letter, from Sheftield, about pikes; he was a member of this society from the commencement ef it: he says, be dined at the Crown and Anchor, on the second of May; there was some music, buthe dees not know what it was. He says, he was at Chalk Farm; he saw the resolutions at the Globe-tavern, but lee does not recollect what they were; he was once delegate, tor six months; he ceased to be se, five or six months ago. 
EYRE 12431 He says, he knew Speuce’s shop ; he bought pamphicts there; he has scen Franklow there, but never heard of any exercising there, till he heard of it now ; hesays, he hus heard of a committee of correspondence; if there was one, it was voted by ballot; he knows Hodgson the hatter; he knows nothing of any seeret committee being appointed, after the apprehension of Hardy; that he has never been in Academy-court, Chancery-lane; he never heard of the Shefield letter, till he saw it in the report ef the secret committee; he never heard of the order to stick the bills up in the aight; Carter, who stuck up the bills, received the money ; whether the bill was criminal he eapnet tell; he did not hear all the conof ae resolutions ; the fee conduct ie people, he says, at Cha ‘arm was pasiestic, then, he ony he voted for the resokstions, without hearing them distinctly, but that others attended to them; that he eted because ethers did; that is a way in: which the majority in these essemblics, I aare say, was very often obtained. f 
EYRE 12432 Alexander Wills edys, he was between two atid three years a member of the Correspond-. ing Society; he says, the object of the society was a parliamentary reform in the House of Commons ; that they were full of respect, honour, and fidelity, to the king; he never had reason to think others intended otherwise ; never to his knowledge, was it intended to do any thing by force; thathe would! not have continued in the society, if there had been eny istention of doing any thing by force ; he has not been 8 member of the society since the king of France suffered ; that the prisoner is of an amiable charaeter, and a good member of society. 
EYRE 12433 The witness says, he id 2 dancing-master ; he is also a member of the Constitutional 80ciety; he was introduced by Heleroft, after he became a member of the Constitutional Societys he wished to hear speakers that were clever men; he took his rule of polities from news-pepers, from public report, and from debates in both Houses of Parliament ; he was but little acquainted with the proceedings; he did not see the books at the meetings; he never knew any of their transactions, which might bring the people or those they ethployed, into any difficulties; he may, he says, have given a shilling, or five shillings, a guinea, two guineas, or five guineas, te assist Carter ; he says, he often gives five guineas, and he does not know whom he gives it to; then, when pressed a little, he says, he might have given some shillings, if not guineas; at last he said, he did not give guineas, but he did give a few shillings; he says, he was asked, in one of the societies, to contribute, in Compton-street ; he says, he is not sure he gave more thaa that. He never heard of a seeret committee, or committee of correspondence, and never saw any letter that been written to the prisoner. I think, notwithstanding that strange Hourish of his, about the five guineas, one may sately conclude that there was no harm in this wite ness. 
EYRE 12434 Archibald Hunter was a member of the London Corresponding Society about twenty months; he knows the prisoner; he belonged to the same division with Hardy ; he says, the object of the society was, to obtain a parliamentary reform; he never understuod any thing else but a reform in the Commons House of Parliament; the King, and the House of Lords, to remain as they were; he 
EYRE 12435 Never heard of force out of the Report; he says, there was no intention to atlack the vernment of the country; that Hardy was a peaceable, respectable, quiet man; he says, Hardy never produced any letter at the divie sien, about pikes, nor communicated it, to his knowledge; he continued a member of the society; he was introduced by Joseph Hupter; be did not attend very regularly, being ae ea out ef town. 
EYRE 12436 eays, he was at Chalk Farm, and at the Globe-tavern ; he understood theit proceady angs were peaceable; he heard the resolu-Mr. Daniel Stuart is secretary to the coaions read, but did not attend to them; he didmittee of the Society of the Friends of u& not vote for them; he says, that from thePeople, in Frith-street; he says, he has sea inattention which pervades his whole conduct, Hardy frequently —In December, 1799, th he couldnot keep up hisattention to hear whatLondon Corresponding Society sent a lete they were
EYRE 12438 he came to London; that he was’ one of his congregation ; that he is a very respectable character, and as far as connected with him in a religious suciety, he can speak to his character ; his moral conduct is good; that he is a man of conscience towards God and man. Peter Macbean, a shoe-maker, says, he has known Hartly seventeen years; that he is of avery amiable character, both civil and religious; a peaccable, quiet, well-disposed man
EYRE 12440 Bell, in Exeter-street, before the society was formed ; he was no delegate; he does not recollect who was the fitst chairman ; Margarot might be for any thing he knew; he believes Hardy to be one of the first that met; and a person of the name of Black, and a Mr. Gow, who is since dead; that there was no clergyman or physician among them; that there were thirty or forty, or more, when they met the greatest number; the first time he came, perhaps, there might be twenty; he believes Margarot was the principal man in forming the original laws, but he cannot recollect who assisted. 
EYRE 12441 Alexander Gordon, a shoe-maker, says, he has known the prisoner twenty years; that he fsa sober, honest, industrious, peaceable man. 
EYRE 12442 John Bogue, a carpenterand cabinet-maker, says be has known the prisoner near ten years; that he is an industrious, honest, christian man. 
EYRE 12443 Mathew Dickey, a Scotch factor, says, he has known the prisoner upwards of five ycars; that he is a strictly honest, upright man; their intercourse was entirely upon business, 
EYRE 12444 Jatnes Hardy says, he is not related to the prisoner; he lives in Smithfield; he has known him from 1779, or 1780; he gives him the best of characters. 
EYRE 12445 They then call Mr. King, and the purpose for which they call Mr. King was, to show, that a letter, which was enclosed to Hardy, in Davison’s letter, which Davison’s letter, you recollect, propused to Hardy a plan for furnishing the society, or any one that wanted them, with pikes, from Sheflicld; in that letter, a letter to a society at Norwich was sent enclosed; Mr. King is not able to speak exactly to it, but he says, he does recollect the circumstance of a letter being found, unopened at the time, but he cannot take upon him to say, whether that was the Norwich letter or no. David Martin, of Sheffield, says, he is a member of a society there, for a reform in the Commons House of parliament, by legal and constitutional means; he says, that-he had no reason to believe that the object of ’ -any other person, was different from his; . he e has been a mem- ! 
EYRE 12446 had not the most distant idea of doing any thing by force; he says, they sent delegates to Scotland, to co-operate with other delegates, to obtain a reform, by a petition to parlament; he says, they hoped the effect of a general co-operation, would be sufficient to induce the parliament to grant the petition ; that it was not their design to compel by force; he says, he would not have remained in the society, if it had; he had no intention to attack the King, nor to attack the Lords; he says, he knows a person of the name of Gale, he was an active man in the society, he believes he is not row at Sheffield, he has no house there; the witness was made an associated memLer of the Constitutional Society, in 1792; he has heard of the proceedings of the Scotch Convention, he saw an account of them in the Gazetteer of Edinburgh, he did not approve of that part relating to a secret committee—he says, being at the outside of the people, on the Castle-hill, he did not hear the lution to petition the House of Commons no more—he says, Yorke and he had not exactly the same opinion, as toa plan of reform in parliament; he does not know who are the editors uf the Patriot, but has heard that Brown was one, which Brown was a delegate to the Scotch Convention; he thought him a peaceable, and welldisposed man ; he says, there were letters between their society, and the Stockport Society, and he thought they also were peaceably disposed
EYRE 12448 He says, he remembers hearing about pikes, that their society had great apprehensions of danger from the opposite party, that they had been threatened and ill used by the opposite party, and by individuals, who took upon themselves an authority that they had no right tu; this was complained of in the society ; he says, that it never was designed or agitated to arm, as a body, to attack the vernment; if it had been, he should we known it
EYRE 12450 The witness admitted the letters to be Ashton’s hand-writing, and signed by him ; it says they were resolved to obtain a. radical zeferm of the country, as soon as prudence nd discretion weill Pormutt 3 and they request that the villages and towns may unite in the sentiments expressed by Paine. The witness says, he never read that letter at all; he does not know that it was ever communicated to him ; he does net know whether it might be communicated to the eocicty, because he did Rot attead all their meetings ; he says there is the Register and the Patriot, published weekly in Sheflicld—He is shown some printed resolutions, thanking Paine for his two: 
EYRE 12451 the Rights of Man ; he says he believes thete eesohitions were circulated in Sheffield, and that the books were -circuleted in Sheffield ; 
EYRE 12452 Serine ey the First and Second Part of that they were sold to vatiouS persom,: town and country, and by some of the me bers of this society; that probably the me ber of the members of the society might about two hundred; that the umber mo tioned in this paper, namely, two thowsx might be taken from the number of re that attended the meetings; he says, thir expected, if there was any corruption in tx House of Lords, the reformation there wu! follow, of course, from a reform in the Hoe of Commons. He says, that Martin, the les witness, signed these resolutions. —Ths witness says there was no concealment tht lx knows of ; that many of their procectogs were published. 
EYRE 12453 Daniel Stuart is called again ; he cays, te bad a letter from the Sheffield Society, sigv! Samuel Ashton, to the Friends of the Peops, dated the 14th of May, 1792; the Frient the People having published their declanin upon the 11th of April preceding ; I beber it will be necessary that the letter, anda answer should be read. 
EYRE 12455 Let it be real. 
EYRE 12456 (See p. 1111.] 
EYRE 12457 Mr. Stuart sys he never heard of this letter of the 26th May, to the Constitutional Society, and thinks he did not know at the time of any their members having been associated the Constitutional Society ; he was sstedato some gentlemen having left the Sead the Friends of the People, and he says bee had, and that other members bave bem added to that society ; he was asked lee whe ther lord Daer, a member of the Bdebugh Convention, had been expelled from theaciety, he says he is still a member. 
EYRE 12458 William Dewsnap, a ragor-maker, st oa field, sayshe was a member of the Shed Society; that their object was, 3 reforenaino in the Commons House of parliameat by titioning; that they went vm the plan of! duke of Richmond; he believes, fom tbe kuowledge he had of the society, thet 0 had only one end in view, aad he boliewes 0" that it is 80; he says, he would oot ha ‘ longed to the society, if the object had gh attack the king or constitution, nor if bt & ject hed been to accotmplish theirend by fom he says, they sent delegates to Scotland to sodiate together, in otter to infortt a of the people, and to draw up such fm be presented te the government, aa4 should think most canducite to ‘ss form in the House of Commens; le fw that Brown hed ne other author) 
EYRE 12459 them; he savs, he has heard people speak of itl-treating the society; that there were inHammatory letters in the Sheffield papers from one Russell ; he says, however, he is almosta stranger to the pike business, as to the general object, ifit had been to have armed, it roust have been known to him, he must have heard of it, the question was never agitated in the committee, or in the society ; he never heard of any intention to resist, or to attack government, he had no such object himself, and he has reasonable hope that the society had not; he says, the society published the duke of Richmond’s letter toinform the societies at large of the principles they meant to go upon, and they adhered strictly to those principles. 
EYRE 12460 Upon his cross-examination he says, the object was, all along, to obtain a reform by petition; that that was negatived on the Castlehill, he heard no voice in the affirmative; he says he remained a member of the society, after that; he has some recollection of a vote of approbation of the proceedings of the Scotch Convention, but he was not then present; he says, he did not know of the contrivance to have the vote for the petition negatived, neither from Broomhead nor Camage, and he has had correspondence with Broomhead for fifteen years; he says, he did not know that any petition to his majesty was prepared ; he says he can form no belief as to the hand-writing of Ashton. ‘ 
EYRE 12461 Edward Smith, a cutler in Sheffield, says, he was a member of the society in 1791; that their object was, to obtain a parliamentary reform upon the duke of Richmond's plan, io his letter tocolonel Sharman ; he understood by the expression Rights of Man in their letters, equal re prereaIAUOn in parliament in the House of Commons; he never heard any thing in the society that they wished to attack the king's title or his prerogative, but much the other way, nor to to touch the dignity of the House of Lords ; he meantto have, as he strangely expressed it the glorious advantages obtained In 1688; that he heard nothing of force, he heard nothing of arms ’till the hand-bill that threatened them; that upon any good news they used to fire there was nothing to provoke this conduct ; that there wis no regular arming ; he says if they had determined to arm, Sheffield could in one day have furnished ten thousand pikes ; that it never was his wish or object in becoming a member of that society, to touch or aifect his sovereign. 
EYRE 12462 Upon his cross-examination, he says, that he thought it necessary to provide arms for his own defence; he does not know how many did; he says, as to himself, he made ho application to any magistrate, he says it jvas put into the Register, a public newspaper at Sheffield, that they advised people to arm to assist the magistrates, the advice was to istols into their houses; that invasion, that being the substance of the hand-bill, which they understood to be against them, they adopted similar words; he says, that by equal representation, he means that every man was to have his vote; he had read both editions of the Rights of Man by Mr. Paine; he obtained them bya subscription of a few friends; that there were many that had them; that they thought well of them; that they seldom read them at the society, but they read them at their own houses ; they also had other cheap publications; he says, he was not at the meeting when they approved of Paine’s works; that he never took into consideration Paine’s notions of monarchy; that the society did not adopt that, but they made no protest against it; that they did not wish to destroy monarchy; he understood the author to be expressing disaffection; he says, he knew Yorke at Shefficld, he was at the Castle-hill, they voted by holding up hands; he never heard of the address from the society to France. 
EYRE 12463 His grace the duke of Richmond is then called, in order to identify a paper which is represented to be his grace’s plan for a reform of parliament; he could not identify that paper, but produced a paper purporting to be a letter to a colonel Sharman, containing a plan fora reform of parliament, and that letter was read. ‘The plan was for universal suffrage and annual election, and it stated that the remedy—that the “nf to obtain it would be by the people : he did not expressly name a convention of the people, but, however, he certainly said enough to put that expedient into the heads of those who were eager for such a plan. 
EYRE 12464 Mr. Stuart is then called again; he says, that he has heard Hardy state his plan to be universal suffrage and annual parliaments ; the witness always objected to it, but that was Hardy's opinion, he always adhered to the duke of Richmond's plan—he said, that was the whole object of his society; he was once in company with him at supper, he found him a sincere, simple, honest man; he says he did not know that he had been an associated member of the Constitutional Society. 
EYRE 12465 Mr. Sterling produced the minutes of 3 Scotch borough convention, but they could not be read. 
EYRE 12466 Joseph Strutt of Derby, says, he belonged to a society there; that a reform in the Commons House of Parliament was their object, they had no design against the King, or the House of Lords, and they had no intention te bring about that reform by force; that upon their petition being rejected, their society never met again. 
EYRE 12467 Mr. Sheridan was then called; he says, ke once saw the prisoner, that it was in the b ginning of March, 1793; be had given notice of an intention to bring forward an inquiry in atm against domestic enemies and forei arliament into the cause of the alarms at 5 gn? 
EYRE 12468 that time ; -that upon that occasion he sent to Hardy, who, he understood, could give him information; he came to him, and he conversed with him; Hardy stated his whole object to be obtainin, reform on the duke of Richmond’s plan, and that he was reddy to give him a sight of his whole correspondence, to produce all his papers to him, that he might lay them before parliament in any manner that he should think fit; he was asked whether he was or not an original member of the Constitutional Society, he said he was, but he had not attended since 1783; there were some questions whether Mr. Sheridan had said any thing of books, as well as papers, whether Hardy offered him books as well as papers; afterwards he said he could not take upon him to be sure that Hardy mentioned books ; that his offer was, to put him in possession of all the papers. 
EYRE 12469 r. Francis was then called; he saw Mr. Hardy twice, firstat his own house, and afterwards at Mr. Francis’s house; the Corresponding Society had thanked Mr. Francis for a speech he had made in parliament in the year 1793, and had expressed a desire that it should be printed ; upon that occasion he saw Mr. Hardy: he says, before that time Hardy had been sent to hi. to desire him to present a potition on the subject of a reform in parliament; that they wished their delegates might be admitted to come to his house, accordingly they were admitted, and they brought a petition—there were four of them; he told them he objected to the prayer of their petition, which was for universal representation according to the duke of Richmond’s plan; he says, that Hardy seemed a remarkably reasonable, quiet man; that they were very ready at the argument in support of universal suffrage, they said they only followed the opinions of the duke of Richmond ; he says, he told them they should have left the remedy in general terms to the wisdom of the house; they said they were sorry they had not known that sooner, but that now they could not alter it, as the petition was signed by a great number of people, and must be presented that day, because Mr. Grey was that day to make his motion. 
EYRE 12470 Mr. Francis says, they did not declare that they would accept nothing else, but they appeared to him to adhere to universal representation, There isa little puzzle about a letter which had been written to Mr. Francis, and his answer ; they had in that letter thanked him for what he had said about a radical reform on a broad basis; he says that was not exactly the tenor of his speech, but he did not think it right to enter into rnuch altercation upon the subject, he gave them a civil answer, and there it ended. 
EYRE 12471 “ See the debate on Mr. Sheridan’s mo30, p. 523, 
EYRE 12472 by peaceable means a 
EYRE 12473 The Earl of Lauderdale-says, he receiveds letter from the Society of the Friends s the People at Portsburg, near Edinburgh; that he saw Skirving upon that occas, and he supposes the application was mx to him in consequence of a conversatxa with Skirving ; Skirving represented that ther wished to have men of education, that thes might be prevented from falling into absrditics, which they should otherwise be lable to fall into; he says, he had no reason ta suspect that any thing more was meant than to obtain Universal Suffrage and Annual Parliaments; he heard nothing of force, and has No reason to think there was any intertwa of force. He was asked if he had beard wy thing of Skirving’s letter to Hardy in Jak, 1793, which is a remarkable letter, his lord ship says he had not; this, I think, is the evidence on the part of the defendant. 
EYRE 12474 Gentlemen, I would, if the day were not s far spent, and my own strength too much ehausted, now go on and finish what I haves say upon this subject, but I foresee it mast necessarily run into an inconvenient length, both to myself and to you; and, therefore, 1 believe I must trouble you to attend to-morrow morning, and then I shall hope in a tew hous to release you. 
EYRE 12475 Gentlemen of the Jury ; Last night, at a late hour, I finished the summing up of the parol evidence, and some parts of the written evidence, which seemed to be more immediately connected with the parol evidence on both sides, except that I aid not state to you the protest in the House of Lords, which was read to you, by the consent of the attorney general, on the part of the prisoner. I did not state it to you at that time, because it did not appear to me to be in its mature evidence. It is something that has passed in the Parliamentary History of this country, from whence arguments might be drawn, on the part of the prisoner, to evidence the purity honesty of bis intentions, and, in my judgment, it is in thet lew nay that itcan be made use of in hs ehalf. 
EYRE 12476 Having thus finished the summing up of the evidence, I may say to you, that this cause, this great and momentous caus be tween the king and the prisoner at the bar, is at length brought to the point of conclusion; and it must be a satisfaction to the mind of every honest man that this cause has been so conducted, has been proceeded upon, and has been attended to by you with so much patience and temper, that there is reason to expect that your minds have been sufficiently intourmed on the subject to enable you to discover its true merits, and to pronounce a verdict, which in the first place will be satisfactory to your own consciences, and as such, cannot but be satisfactory lo the cominunity. 
EYRE 12477 Gentlemen, it is as great a satisfaction to me, as I can feel in the exercise of so paintul aduty as that which has been cast upon me, to reflect that upon this occasion there is, I think, no possible chance of our being entangled in any difficulties in point of law. The verdict in this case, will not proceed, and ou will receive no directions from me that it ought to proceed, on any narrow or technical rounds. The overt-act charged in this indictment, is in substance, that the prisoner at the bar, and those who have been concerned with him, have cunspired to depose the king, and to subvert the monarchy of this country; and this is charged, and always has been considered, as an overt-act of the treason of compassing the death of the king. Itis indeed a known presumption of law, acknowledged by the best writers upon the law, and particularly by every one of those writers who have been referred to by the counsel on both sides, that he who conspires to depose the king, compasses and imagines the death of the king; and it never has been made a question, whether the compassing and imagining the death of the king was the primary intent conceived in the mind, and was prior to the conspiracy to depose him, or whether the conspiracy to depose the king, must necessaily, from the nature of the charge, be subsea to the compassing and imagining the eath of the king; I say it isnot to be put to you that the compassing and imagining the death of the king is to be proved a conception in the mind, prior to the conception of deposing the king. The conspiracy to depose the king is evidence of compassing and imagining the death of the king, conclusive in its Nature, so conclusive that it is beconte a presumption of law, which is in truth nothing more than a necessary and violent presumption of fact, admitting of no contradiction. Who can doubt that the natural person of the king is immediately attacked and attempted by him who attempts to depose him. 
EYRE 12478 Gentlemen, I shall employ no more time in discussing such a question; many, many hours were spent at the bar, in this discussion; but, on the part of the prisoner, it was manifest, that, after the discussion, the argument broke down under the case, and it became impossible. for either of the gentlemen to set himself distinctly to maintain this proposition, that an honest man could fairly doubt whether he who conspires to depose the king, has compassed or imagined his death. 
EYRE 12479 Gentlemen, you will therefore proceed to the examination of the fact, and I am most cordially disposed to agree with the counsel for the prisoner, that, if he is this day to be convicted, he ought to be proveablement attaint; i e. the proof ought to be clear and convincing. I avoid using the word direct, lest I should entangle you in a difficulty, as to the nature of the proof; it may consist of a train of circumstances, provided the result is such as shall leave no doubt in your minds. The law of the land is perfectly clear, that such proof is as legal, and therefore ought to be as satisfactory, as the most positive and direct proof that can be offered 
EYRE 12480 Gentlemen, the question of fact may be shortly stated thus : Whether the prisoner, and the other persons, have conspired to subvert the monarchy, and whether they have set on foot a project of a convention of the people, in order to effect it? 
EYRE 12481 Gentlemen, I have employed a part of that time since the Court broke up, which it was necessary enough for me to have devoted to sleep, in endeavouring to take such a review of the evidence in this cause, as might enable me to lay the questions of fact between the king, and the prisoner at the bar, with some tolerable distinctness, before you, that you might see where the matter hinged, and that you might be the better enabled to apply your attention and consideration to the different points of the case. I do not know whether I shall succeed, or not, but I do hope I shall be able tw point out to you the leading features of this case, in a way that may be of some use to you in forming your judgment. 
EYRE 12482 I begin with stating to you, that I think it ought to be conceded to this prisoner, upon the whole result of this evidence, that he had set out originally upon that which is called the Duke of Richmond's Plan of a Reform in Parliament; that is, upon a plan to obtaina representation of the people in the Commons House of Parliament, by Universal Suftrag and Annual Election; and I think it will incumbent on those who sustain the prose cution, to satisfy you that the prisoner, and the other persons who have been concerned with him, whether irritated by their own enthusiasm, or by the example of France, have departed trom that plan, and have entered into a criminal pursuit of another object, another object, in the opinion of very wise men, not very far removed from that which was originally their object (and it is that proximity which has made a laboured promulgation of this doctrine of universal suffrage and annual election, so dangerous to the community); the objectImean to point out to you, is, the substituting, in the room of an improvement of the representation in the Commons House of Parliament, the establishment of a government by a representation of the people only 3.a pure democracy, which may undoubtedly be comprehended under the Lords, “ a fulland free Representation of the People. 
EYRE 12483 Gentlemen, in the mass of the written evidence which has been laid before you, there are to be found passages, and those not extremely numerous, which will be fit to be submitted to your consideration, as grounds from whence the prosecutors have drawn their conclusion, and by which they are to support it; that this departure from the original plan has taken place, and that the prisoner at the bar has entered into the criminal pursuit imputed to him; the passages in the evidence to which I particularly refer you, are those, in the first place, which mark the conduct of the popular societies, in which the prisoner is implicated, in the course of the year 1792, prior to their presenting their addresses to the National Convention of France: when you have considered this evidence, you will have then to consider those addresses to the National Convention, with the circumstances belonging to them. After you have seen and considered those addresses, you will then have to look at their subsequent conduct, to be collected from their written transactions, down to the time of the dispersion of the British Convention, in Scotland, in the latter end of the year 1793; and then you will have to consider, and to form your judgment upon that project of a Convention, which was tonceived and proceeded upon, to a certain extent, in the beginning of 1794. 
EYRE 12484 Gentlemen, here I think you will find the great outline of the charge, upon which, with such explanations as the rest of the written evidence will afford, and the additional circumstances disclosed by the parol testimony, you are to decide. 
EYRE 12485 I think I may state to you, without troubling you with particular evidence, that it is lear, from the whole mass of the evidence which you have heard, that these popular societies had, in the beginning of the year 1792, 80 conducted ihemeclres as to raise a question upon themselves, and their conduct, some time before the addresses to the National Convention took place; you will recollect that it appeared, from some of the papers which were read, that there was a society, calling themselves, he Friends of the People, consisting of men of rank and property, and of distinctior in the country, who had refused to correspond with the Constitutional Society, You will recullect, that the same set of men had exhorted the Sheffield Society, with whom they were in correspondence that year, and had exhorted them in vain, to make an exPlicit declaration of their attachment to the vernment, as by law established. Some of these popular societies had gone so far, that a society, at Stockport, put the question, di‘rectly, to the London Corresponding Society, by a letter, addressed to the precner ow at the bar, to know what it was they meant, and particularly to know, whether Meant to go on with the House of Lords? That society intimated their doubts, whether, with the House of Lords, they could effectuate ther plan of reform; or, whether with the arpa who made a part of the House of liberty of conscience, as they understood it, could ever be sacetacinny established. 
EYRE 12486 Another society, in the same year, from Norwich, put the question still more distinctly, and in a way which could not possibly be misunderstood ; for they put this direct question to the prisoner, Hardy, as secretary to the London Corresponding Society : Do you mtend to rip up the monarchy by the roots? It is in evidence, they suspected that this hs letter was a snare, intended for them; will recollect Lynam’s evidence to that and that they were on their guard. The prsoner, Hardy, for the society, answered both these letters. To be sure, one might reason ably have expected that men, who adopted the duke of Richmond’s plan, with sincerity of heart, and who meant not to go beyond his plan, would, when called upon, have most distinctly avowed the extent of their plan, m terms which could admit of no equivocatioz, or exception; that they would have avowed their dutiful attachment to the king; that they would have avowed their adherence te the constitution of the Fovemment, as by law established, in King, Lords, and Commons; that they would have left no man to doubt, and particularly those persons who put the question to them, what their opinion was upon these points, on which their opin was to govern the conduct of others. With respect to the-present letter, the move reasoa they had to suspect that letter to be a snare, laid for them, the more reason they had te speak out. 
EYRE 12487 What the opinion was that they really entertained, the answers to these two requisitions are supposed to be sufficient to enable you to discover; the letters and the answers shall now be read to you; before they are read, I would observe, once for all, that ma case of this nature, much stress t net to be laid on particular expressions. forbid that men’s lives should depend on nice inter pretations and constructions of words. I am against even a very strict interpretation of actions, to the prejudice of any prisoner; but sometimes expressions are too strong, sometimes transactions too explicit, to admit of a doubt as to their real interpretation meaning. 
EYRE 12488 Gentlemen, hear the answers to these two reinors sead 3 attend to foo a and se what it is they do import, ticularly whether they do import any satisinctony sal explicit avowal of attachment to the constitation of the country, as by nwcsyabliahed, King, Lords, aml Chcaesten, ‘ 
EYRE 12489 Cae ee A 
EYRE 12490 Gentlemen, all the observations that are to be made on the particular expressions in these two answers, have been already made to you by the counsel, and you will judge of their roper force. I have no occasion to repeat tan, Such of them as strike your minds, clearly and distinctly, are probably well founded. If it requires much niceness of critical inguiry to fix the meaning imputed to the words, I should advise you not to emplo: yourselves in that sort of criticism. I thin you would only entangle yourselves, and you would not see the case in its great outlines, which I believe is the only way in which it can be seen truly. One observation only I shall make on their answer, because it is immediately connected with the history of this transaction, namely, that, in their answer they inform the society at Stockport, that they have resolved on addressing the French National Convention, and then follows this extraordinary passage: ‘“ Without entering into the probable effects of such a measure, effects which your society will not fail to discover, we invite you to join us. What were to be the probable effects of this measure, which these persons were to discover? And why did not oy epaealy avow to this society the whole of their project, in terms that could admit of no yosaile equivocation, or doubt? These are Le only observations which I make on this tter. 
EYRE 12491 Gentlemen, they state that they had resolved to address the National Convention, and they did, in fact, address it; and it is very apparent in the evidence, that the society to which Hardy belonged took the lead in that measure. ‘They notify it not only to the Stockport Society, but also to the other societiea, with whom they were then in correspondence. They transmitted their resolution to address the Convention to the Society for ConStitutional Information; that society having declared their approbation of the intention, the London Corresponding Society transmitted to them the address, which they meant to send; the result was, that the Society for Constitutional Information did not think fit to join them ia that particular address, but they also resolved to present an address of their own to the Convention of France, and they, in fact, did so. What their objects were in presenting these addresses, are only darkly alluded to in the letter of the Corresponding jiety to the Society at Stockport; but whatever their objects might be, itis an observation which arises upon their conduct to-t J act, there- was little to be doue here, with wards those two societies to whom they sent these two letters, and upon their conduct in thus presenting these addresses, that if, in order to account for, and to explain the letters, iv could suppose that they had measures to p with those societies, the violence of some to check, the moderation of others to animate, for them to keep measures with those societies, and to answer every man in his own way, so‘as to lose none, and to increase the number of their followers ; and if you were disposed, therefore, to attribute the particular language of these answers to some such necessity, or policy, yet in respect of their conduct to the National Convention of France, they appear to be perfectly volunteers; to have no measures to keep with any body, and to be therefore directly responsible for all the consequences that might follow from such addresses. ‘ 
EYRE 12492 Gentlemen, it will be necessary to trouble you with the reading of these addresses; 
EYRE 12493 ause they, on the part of the prosecution, insist, that they admit of no explanation whatever; that they are the measures of determined Republicans, going out of their way to express their zeal in the cause of Republicanism
EYRE 12495 Such was the language of these addresses, which were presented to the National Convery a France. ; ee entlemen, it appears from the evidence, that these addresses were presented by pers sons appointed from hence. The name of one of them is J. Frost. The language in which Frost presented them, you are in possession of; it has been laid before you, in the course of the evidence, but it may be proper that you should now hear it read again. 
EYRE 12496 I forbear, at this time, to remark on the conduct of the persons employed to present these addresses, except so far as that conduct is connected with the case of the prisoner at the bar, because, in any other view of it, it is not before you. The language used by Frost is connected with the case of the prisoner; for though not held by the prisoner himself, nor by the persons who deputed Frost to deliver the addresses, yet it is brought home to them, because the language of the presentation of the address is transmitted by Frost to the societies; and you will find, that, after they had been informed in what language it had been presented, an unqualified approbation of the conduct of Frost was given by the Society for Constitutional Information, of which Hardy was an associated member. 
EYRE 12497 An observation has been made upon one of these addresses, which declares, that till the National Convention of France had begun to respect to the views of these popular societies, What connexion the views of these popular societies could have with the National Convention of France, unless they had begun to entertain a new idea, or a new interpretation of the phrase, “ Representation of the people or any other objects, which made it necessaryby Universal Suffrage and Apnual Electons, arising out of the proceedings of the National Convention of France, or it not arising out of them, yet to be now adopted, in consequence of the National Convention of France having exhibited that great scene on the theatre of the world, and to be now attempted to be carried into execution, is for your judgment. The presenter of these addresses has expressed an expectation, that felicitations might soon come over to a National Assembly here. What that National Assembly was to be, which was to be established here in Fugland, and which was to be felicitated by France, will be a subject for your serious consideration, and must deserve and demand the deepest investigation. 
EYRE 12498 Gentlemen, I have stated to you, that the only effect, in this case, which the language of the delegate, who presented this address, can have, is in respect of the adoption of it by the prisoner, and by the persons concerned with him. It was truly observed, that, if an agent be employed, it would be cruel to bind his principal to any thing in which he went beyond the bounds of his agency. It would be cruel to impute the acts of an agent to his Principal, when that principal never approved of them ; but, if the principal does approve of them, there is no hardship in such imputation; there is no cruelly or hardship whatever in niaking the principal accountable for the conduct of the agent, in construing the language of the agent to be the language of the principal. 
EYRE 12499 Gentlemen, you will judge, whether those concerned to support this prosecution have, upon solid grounds, or otherwise, branded these proceedings with rank Republicanism, and with being a distinct avowal, that every one of those people was embarked in the cause of Republicanism: it is an extremely important point to settle; for, on your review of the subsequent transactions in this cause, they will undoubtedly have, and must have a very different complexion, as they are understood to be the proceedings of determined republicans, or as they are understood to be the Proceedings of dutiful and loyal subjects to the king, zealously affected to the constitution of the country, as established in a King, Lords, and Commons. Men of the one description are entitled to a large, liberal, and candid interpretation of all their words and actions. Men of those other principles must expect to have their language, sentiments, and conduct referred to those principles. 
EYRE 12500 Gentlemen, the next head of inquiry for you will be, the transactions of these societies, subsequent to the presenting of those addresses, and prior to the conception of the resent design of a National Convention in ngland, which is the immediate subject of this prosecution; and you will examine, whether the persons who had taken this extraordinary stepiwtuch seems to have been uncalled for, and to have for its principal object a public demonstration, that thus addressed the National Convention. were actuated by the same principle of &mocracy which governed the Convention.) ;1 say, whether the authors of it, and the perscas concerned in it, have in any manner redeemed themselves, by their subsequent conduc, from the imputation which the presenting these addresses has brought upon them. I stated to you, that, as far as voting an unqulitied approbation goes, they immediately adopted the comment upon their own condut, by their own agent, that probably a felicitation would come from France to a Natenal Assembly in England. There is nehng done by these societies to discourage the epectation of a National Convention in Ene. land; you will judge whether they have net taken very active steps to prepare the way for it. The acts of these societies, more im mediately referable to this subject, which have been laid before you, on the part of the prosecution, consist chiefly of resolutions, mporting warm and unqualified approbation of the works of two celebrated writers, Thomzs Paine and Joel Barlow ; the first writing ‘Ipoa the Rights of Man, and the last on what was called the Privileged Orders, Parts of these works have been read to you, and they area most direct attack on the establishmentot the monarchy of this country ; and they doatlck more or less pointedly and directly the establishment of that order in this country—the House of Lords. The societies not only approved of these works, but they dispervd them all over the country, with a wondcrul anxiety, and ata great expense. The proscutors, in this case, have asked the question, why was this done? They say it is acting consistently, if it is done by Republicans, who wish to subvert the monarchy, and overturn the established orders; but, if it 8 done by dutiful subjects of the king, and persons attached to the constitution of the cum try, what explanation can they give of it? In the defence that was made for the prisoner, it was observed, that there were parts of these works that went only, in general, to defend the Rights of Man in society, without gory to the establishments of this country; that to such parts of these works, there could be no reasonable objection ; and that those parts might, therefore, be disseminated by honest men and good subjects. Admit that the observation is fair; was it not the duty of honest men, and good subjects, who were dis seminating such parts of these works as mizht serve to enlighten mankind, on subjects 00 which they ought to be enlightened, to bare taken some pains to have separated the bad parts from the good, or at least to have ziven the public some caution, that, in reading those works, they should make a separation of themselves, that when they were read of the general Rights of Man, and fcam passages striking at the monarchy of thts country, they should be careful! not to imbibe persons whoprejudices against the monarchy? ‘That whes reading observations on Privileged Orders, they should take care to remember, this was not intended to strike at the orders of this country, to which the public had a devoted attachment? 
EYRE 12501 Such, gentlemen, would have been the conduct of good subjects, That this was not the conduct of these persons is most apparent; and that these publications must have had the eftect of doing a great deal of mischief, by alienating the minds of the king’s subjects from his person and government, and trom the constitution, is perfectly clear. How much of this effect these persons intended, I shall leave entirely fur your consideration ; thus much I think is clear, that there is nothing in those publications which can serve to remove any prejudices which arise against the prisoner, and the persons concerned with him, irom the addresses which was presented to the Convention of France. 
EYRE 12502 Gentlemen, another general feature in the transactions of those men, at this peried, is their numerous publications, complaining of grievances supposed to exist in this country, and the abundance of licentious observations scattered throughout these publications, all tending to produce the same effect—the alienation of the affections of the country from the king and government. Grievances may and will exist in all governments, and that they may exist in a greater or less degree, in this government, may be true; but dutiful and good subjects, who honestly mean the reform of these grievances, will take care, in their endeavours to procure this reform, not to hazard the overturning the government itself. 
EYRE 12503 These are the transactions in the early part of the year 1793, upon which the prosecutors rely, as manifesting a spirit of disaffection and republicanism by which these men were actuated, and as evidence of their having taken measures to prepare men’s minds for what they call a radical reform; in effect, a change in the whole government of the country. 
EYRE 12504 It appears, that in the course of the summer of that year the project of a National Convention, to be held in Scotland, originated ; and they say, on the part of the prosecntion, and certainly not without colour (how far it is distinctly proved you will judge), that it originated with the prisoner at the bar. They refer you to a letter, written by the priSoner to Skirving in Edinburgh. 
EYRE 12505 Now you will hear the answer read which Skirving sent to that letter, and you will aftend to it, because that answer is charged on the part of the prosecution to have a great deal of matter in it, tending to explain the mechanism of a National Convention, and also what was to be its great object. 
EYRE 12506 Gentlemen, every part of this letter deserves the most serious attention, in that view of it, which I pointed out to you just before the reading of the letter. I think there are some paragraphs in it which may require to be restated to you. ‘This letter says,—‘ 1 have not ahigher wish in the present exertions for reform, than to see the people universally and regularly associated; because I am persuaded that the present disastrous engagemenis will issue in ruin, and the people then must provide for themselves. What do these mysterious words mean 
EYRE 12508 “ And it would be unhappy (says the writer of this letter) when we should be ready to act with unanimity, to be occupied about organization, without which, however, anarchy must ensue. Orgauization of what? It is true, that if the country was to be brought to such a state, that the government was to be destroyed and another form of government to take its lace, it would be unhappy when we shouldready to act with unanimity to be occupied about organization of the new powers of government, without which anarchy must ensue
EYRE 12510 The extent of reform which they ought to seek, according to the defence was distinct, and well known, and had been so a great while, for it was the duke of Richmond’s plan of reform, 
EYRE 12511 He adds—“ Be prepared to justify it, and to controvert objections ; let us model the whole in the public mind; let us provide every stake and stay of the tabernacle which we would erect : so that when the tabernacles of oppression, in the palaces of ambition, are broken down, under the madness and folly of their supporters, we may then, without anarchy and all dangerous delay, erect at once our tabernacle of righteousness, and may the Lord himself be in it. 
EYRE 12512 What docs this mysterious man mean? What is this tabernacle of rightcousness to be erected at once, without anarchy and dangerous delay? are they right on the part of the prosecution when they say, that he means that it is probable there may soon be a revolution in the government of this country, and that, in that case, it would be fit some body of men should be ready to take upon themselves the powers of government, and to act upon them P or does he only mean that a reform in parliament would be found to be necessary; that people ought to know what it is they mean to ask, and in what manner they mean to ask it. 
EYRE 12513 Gentlemen, this is an exposition of this doctrine of a Convention coming from a Briton, and immediately communicated to the prisoner at the bar; and, rin that respect, has a direct application to him; and it is of importance, as it tends to satisfy you that he has not been surprised into any thing, but that having had this communication with Skirving on the subject, he had an opportunity of weighing it. 
EYRE 12514 There is in the evidence another exposition of a national convention, it may be pro that I should mention it, but I shall not state it with great particularity, because, under the circumstances of this case, I do not think it ought to press much against the prisoner
EYRE 12516 [sre spect to the letter that was sent to himself; he had a full opportunity of weighing it; of asking for explanation; or of correcting the ideas that were in it: and it gave him warning to take care that if such a convention was sct op foot, it might not lead to the consequences which seem to be pointed out in that letter. Gentlemen, on the fifth of October of that year the prisoner wrote a letter to Skirving, in answer to a letter of Skirving’s dated October the second; which last letter is not in evi dence. In this letter the prisoner mentiuns his having communicated to Margarot cay, Skirving’s project of a convention in Scotland; he recommends it to Skirving to write an official letter to his (Hardy’s) society, propose to them to send delegates to that convention; and, in that letter, he desires Skirving vot to take notice that he had any com Tounication with him. Here the prisoner, Hardy, appears quite in a new character. He was certainly not an inactive member of the society, independent of his being secretary to the society. Had he acted only as secretary, it might be said, he might have been misled in a great many things; he might have written many things which he did not understand, or which he had not time to weigh, as a man might write whole sheets without having any idea of the sense after he had written them: it was, therefore, very much in his favour to consider the prisoner only as a secretary. But here he certainly is a principal, and most extraordinarily so; a princi i with a great share of the spirit of intrigue and duplicity, which totally changes the character of the man, as it might have been collected from all the rest of the evidence in the cause. A letter is written accordingly by Skirving, and the delegates are appointed; they were two very able men, viz. Margarot and Gerrald. The Scottish Convention is held. They sat for fourteen days, and were then dispersed ty authority. What would have happened it that Scottish Convention had not dispersed, one can only conjecture ; but in order to form any rational conjecture, it is to attend to the general conduct of that convention. It is fit you should call back to ycur memory just the leading features of it. It is pressed on you, on behalf of the prisoner, that the meeting of the delegates of these bodies was for this single object—to consider what was the best way of appealing to parliament, in order to procure a returm in the Commons House of Parliament. As to that, you will recollect the transactions of that year respecting an application to parliament. There had been an application to parliament, and the principal mover was Mr. Grey. Of the sincerity of the honourable mover, in his application for a parliamentary reform, I suppose no man will doubt; but of the sincerity of the application of these popular societies to par liament, on the evidence before you, every man must doubt. They express themselves, upon more than one occasion, as disposed to consent to it only because it would prepare men for what was to follow, and serve to keep the public mind in agitation upon that subject. Considering this convention as assembled, in order to procure a reform in parliament, it would be fit to compare the means with the end, and then judge whether this ostensible purpose was the only purpose of this convention. 
EYRE 12517 When there was a motion made, that a scroll ofa petition to parliament should be prepared, they negatived it, and therefore, if that was their only object, the aed of their meeting was atan end; but, laying that object aside, view this conventionas it was ; yon find it closely imitating the manners of the National Convention of France; you hear of primary assemblies and sections; you perceive this National Convention assuming. to itself a formality of proceeding which is very becoming where it is subject to no just exception, but in the place in which it appears, cerinly very alarming. We findthe convention is constituted every day by solemn prayer ; it is closed every day by solemn praver. They had their committee of finances ; their patriotic donations, with honourable mention; their order of the day; their appellation of citizen ; and the tenth day they assumed this date, The first year of the British Convention : recollect, how all this follows the poe, of the National Convention of France. Who shall say what would have happened if that convention had not been dispersed at the end of fourteen days? Whoshall say that if they continued to assume in the manner in which they had begun, and some interval had been Pracied to them, and that in that time they had happened to gain the public opinion in their favour, judging by what happened in France, who shall say that this body of men would not have been the government of this country? This convention was, however, dispersed; the consequence of which has been, that legal proceedings have taken place against some of the members, upon which it would mot become me in this place to make any observations, except that occasion has been taken to complain of these proceedings as a grievance, and most certainly the prisoner, and those who are connected with him in these societies, did take occasion from thence to irritate the public mind to as great a degree as it was possible to do, by the reflections that were made on these proceedings. 
EYRE 12518 Gentlemen, there immediately followed upon the reflections which were dispersed on the subject ofthese proceedings, the plan of a British Convention to be held in England ; which leads us to the pointto which the whole of the present inquiry is to have its relation, mmore or less. Now it deserves serious attention on your parts to the circumstances with which this new plan of a convention was introduced to the public notice, and by which it was recommended to the public attention ; in order to enable you to Tue, whether the object of it was that peaceable ebject which is insisted on for the prisoner; whether a reform in the Commons House of Parliament wasreally the bottom of the whole; or whether the object of it must have been to alter the constitution of our government, to obtain indeed a full and perfect representation of the prople, but not in the Commons House of 
EYRE 12519 ‘arliament. 
EYRE 12520 One should have apprehended that under any provocation which these people professed to have felt, or which they might really feel, they would have pursued a very different course from that which they did pursue, as they were acquainted with the circumstances of the dispersion of the former convention, and with all the objections that were made to that convention. As they were determined to have another convention, it was to be expected that, at least, they would have taken care so to their language and proceedings, that it should be impossible they could be misunderstood ; to have expressed themselves clearly and distinctly on all occasions; to have explained the grounds of this convention; to have conducted themselves with a decent moderatiun towards the government of the country, and towards its proceedings, It might reasonably have been expected that they would have made an express avowal of loyal sentiments, and an express disavowal of going any lengths which could be justly objected to; an express disavowal of oing beyond the original object of pe amentary reform, as stated by the duke of Richmond. Every thing that was inflammatory ought-to have been most carefully avoided, in order to prevent their purpose being misunderstood; and what was more material, in order to ensure success to the measure itself. What was done you will see, and from that you will form your own conclusions. They published a paper, which you will hear rent. and you will attend to it. I do not consider it as my business to make particular comments on it, let it make its own impression on your minds. The paper I refer to (there are many which are connected with it) is the address of the 20th of January, 1794, of the London Corresponding Society, at a genera] meeting held at the Globe-tavern. 
EYRE 12521 Gentlemen, you have heard this paper read, it expressly refers to a convention; and it was certainly published ata time when an idea of a convention was in the minds of the people. Now you are to judge between the king and the prisoner upon the evidence which this paper affords, whether the object of that convention was merely to procure a free and full representation of the people in the Commons House of Parliament, and in the due course of law, and according to the constitution of the country, or whether that paper is to be understood as a manifesto to excite the people to overturn the government, and to direct the people's minds to the use that should be made of a convention for the purpose of overturning the government1. 
EYRE 12522 Gentlemen, this happened on the 20th of January, 1794; soon afterwards they began in these two societies to consider how this convention was to be brought about. The London Correspunding Society had come to a resolution upon it in terms which upon the face of it were open to some observations. A communication took place between the Corresponding Society and the Society for ConStitutional Infermation. The two societies appointed a joint committee, who came to a resolution expressed in more guarded language, which you will hear read. 
EYRE 12523 You see that this is a dry resolution to call a convention for the purpose of taking into consideration the proper method of obtaining a fair and full representation of the people. This is their object, as they think fit to express themselves upon consideration; and it ¢ertainly was not too late for them to have retracted any part of the rashness and violence of any former measure which they might have taken. If they, thinking they had been too violent in their expressions, or extravagant in their sentiments had come to this resvlution, with a view to remedy the fault of their former proceedings, and confine the objects of the convention within its just limits, that consideration would, no doubt, have its due weight; but even in this resolution we find nodeclaration that they sought only a refurm in the Commons House of Parliament, and that no attempt was meant against the King, and the jurisdiction and authority of the House of Lords.There was a joint committee of correspondence and co-operation appointed by these societies to consider of the means for carrying this resolution into execution, and it appears that they entered into a very extensive correspondence both in England and in Scotland for that purpose ; while that correspondence was going on, upon the 14th of April last, the London Corresponding Society held a general meeting ; it seems to have been originally intended to have been held in a large room in Store-street ; it was not held there probably from an apprehension that the magistrates might interfere, and therefore they adjourned to a place inthe neighbourhood of London, Chalk-farm, They there assembled to the number of two thousand or more, and there the resolutions, which will be read to you presently, were voted. These resolutions are as violent, or more so, than the former, and do not in the least correspond with the idea of applying to obtain a reform of parliament on the duke of Richmond’s plan, but seem rather calculated to prepare the minds of the people for a violent crisis, acrisis upon which a National Convention once assembled would immediately act, and in the nature of things would be called upon to act; this is the prosecutor’s construction of these resolutions. You will attend to them, and see whether tua is the proper construction to be. put upoa them—why they assembled that mecting at all is extremely difficult to comprehend. If they thought the former resolutions had gone too far, and would have been liable to creat misconstruction, and possibly might do a great deal of mischief, it might be necessary to call another meeting for the purpose of correcting what was extravagant in these resolutions, and of bringing back things toa more moderate tone ; to point out more disunctly the lawful objects they had in view, and wtally to exclude all idea of their going beyond those objects. Tobe sure such a meeting, in their circumstances, might have been vers proper ; but if it should appear that this second meeting was pursuing the same idea, and giving a great deal of countenance to what was done at the former meeting, that the as sembling of two thousand people must bave an effect to impress the public mind, that a force was ready to act when called upon, and they were determined to go on with that, which on the 20th of January they had promulgated to the world, If instead of intending to bring things back, or to remedy the effects of their foriner violence, we tind them advancing in the same carecr, and hastemag by the same means to the accomplishasx at ot their object, what must be the conclusiun? If instead of coming forward with a declaration of their loyalty to the throne, or their attacbment to the constitution of parliament, as far as respects the House of Lords, in order to do away the impression of their former proceedings, and remove all suspicion and ambiguity with respect to their future intentions, we find them coming forward with another minitesto; this manifesto comes forward in a still more questionable shape than the former, as it carnies along with it the appearance of great force, and may be understood to notfy that they are ready, if it shall be necessary, to sct in support of their former resolutions. You will fr these resolutions of Chalk-farm read, and you will form your own judgment on them. 
EYRE 12524 Gentlemen, one cannot hear this paper read, without feeling astonishment that men could be so blinded by enthusiasm, or by any other affection of the human mind, as not to see that in consequence of such a publication ag this, independent of its particular applica tion lo the subject of our present inquiry, the sword of the law was hanging over their heads by a single thread. They ap; to have linaeticd that the meeting of a conventwa could not be prevented but by act of parla ment. Suppose it was possible for them have believed that, and suppose the publicity of their proceedings to afford some argument that these men thought them legal, was possible, if they attended to the subject, or if they had taken any advice, not to see that it was extremely criminal to publish those resolutions to two hundred thousand people? and as many more as might have an opportunity of looking atthem. According to these resoJutions, it was a probable case “ that they would soon be in a state where the social compact would be actually dissolved, and that it-would be necessary to appeal to that principle, that incontrovertible maxim of eternal justice, that the safety of the people was the supreme, and in cases of necessity, the only law, which admits but of one interpretation. If the social compact is dissolved, there is an end of the government, of course there must be the establishment of another in its stead ; another government must be framed ; this is therefore expressly encouraging the people to look out for the moment to arrive when another government was to be framed, to be erected on the ruins of the present establishment. 
EYRE 12525 Gentlemen, it is of importance, with respect to the present question, that the eighth and tenth resolutions glance, not in an indirect manner, at the House of Lords, as a body in the contitution, not entitled to the respect of the people. Of what extreme consequence this was in the present moment you will see, because this was the moment in which, that which was to be done in the National Convention, was to occupy the minds of all people. And what was to 4 done? They say on the part of the prisoner, that he, and those who were associated with him, were in a dutiful, constitutional, and regular course, to collect sense of all people, and then present the united wishes of the peuple, in a regular and constitutional way, to parliament. Now was that, or could that be the object of men who had assumed so much of the republican character, who afler addressing the National Convention of France, had acted the part they done, up to the present moment, who were then talking of the social compact being dissolved, and were then speaking contemptuously of the other branch of the legislature. 
EYRE 12526 To this question, what was meant to be done in this convention, as resolved on, in January, 1792,and as followed up by the resolutions at Chalk-farm, on the 14th of April, belongs a transaction of a society at Sheffield, which has been a leading society in correspondence with the two societies here in London. ‘The society at Sheffield, had been artificially represented to be extremely numerous; there was a meeting, in fact, of ten thousand, on the 7th of April, on the Castle-hill, Several resolutions were there passed ; they were moved by a Mr. Yorke, not a native of that place, but who found his way among them, and made use of that opportunity. You have heard of Mr. Yorke being a member of the London Corresponding Society—under what directions he went to Sheffield, does not appear; how these resolutions were obtained, I 
EYRE 12527 do not think it material to observe upon, farther than that it isa satisfaction to know; that though multitudes are made parties to these proceedings, there is every reason in the world to belive, that but few are engaged in the depth of the project. Of the ‘ten thousand people assembled on the Castle-hill, there is no reason to suppose that two hundred knew what was going forward. A trick for negativing a resolution to petition parliament, was concerted between four people, and by their mancuvring, and management, these resolutions passed in such a way, that it was impos. sible they could be understood by the greatest part of the people; but however that was, the promulgation of them to the world at this juncture, appears tu have avery close connexion with this plan of aconvention. It was Proposed, and resolved, to petition parliament no more. It was observed by. the counsel for the prisoner, that oe cannot justly conclude, because an individual society, or those who conducted that society were of opinion that they should petition parliament no more, that therefore a body of men, more likely to command the attention of parliament, were not, according to their apprehension to apply to parliament, fora parliamentary reform. 
EYRE 12528 It was fairly put, and it is right and fit to see whether the observation is founded in the truth of the case. When you come to examine the resolution with the context, it hardly admits of that interpretation, because the reason they assign for not petitioning is, that they will not petition a body who are not their representatives. Now that reason must apply to the House of Commons for ever, accordin, to their notion of it, and as it was underst and adopted, by the Corresponding Society, and other societies with whom they were in correspondence. If it could not be the object of this convention to petition parliament, where shall we find the pie. but in the addresses to the nation immediately preceding and immediately following the promulgation of the project, which appear totally inconsistent with the idea of a convention for the purpose of an application to parliament, and to be consistent with, and calculated to give effect to aconvention for other purposes, and particularly for the purpose of concerting the means of establishing a representative government of the people
EYRE 12530 The parol evidenceapplies both ways, many of the witnesses for the crown expressly disavow all force upon the government, and every other object beyond a reform in the ommons House of Parliament; on the other hand, individuals are charged with having attempted to corrunt the soldiery, and to have meditated a personal attack upon the king, and direct force against his government ; but this, however, I ought to observe, is not brought home to the prisoner. There is also parol evidence, though loose and unconmected, of a preparation of arms in which the prisoner is in some degree implicated. One witness, not of the best credit, said that they were to furnish themselves with arms to defend the National Convention when it should be called. This evidence in its nature is very important—this is clear, that in their idea of a national convention, every thing was therein to be conducted peaceably, and orderly, the national convention must then be protected from without, because it is by such a national convention being protected, and being left at liberty to act, that it could exeeute its orders and decrees; it seems, therefore, not imconsistent with the idea of a national convention which was to overturn the government, to inculcate peace, and good order; for the truth undoubtedly was, and these persons saw it, that whatever this national convention was to do, it must do by means of having the voice of the public going along with it. It was in that way only, that it could execute its purposes; the taking arms, therefore, to defend the national convention, has an immediate connexion with the charge. In the parol evidence it was also stated, that these people expected there would be a struggle before they obtained their object, and that they had made a preparation for it; several witnesses said, that their whole object, in furnishing themselves with arms was, to defend themselves against illegal attacks, and negatively, that they did not mean to attack the king, or the government. If they had no object Bavond pure self-defence, they might lawfully furnish themselves with arms. 
EYRE 12531 If they meant to put themselves into a condition to sustain their convention by force, against any attack which might be made upon it, or upon them in defence of it, «defence becomes offence and treason. 
EYRE 12532 Respecting the whole of this evidence as to arms, standing alone, I should have thought No great reliance was to be had upon it; connected, as it is, with the whole transactions of these bodies, it certainly is evidence very fit to be taken into consideration by the jury, and is of some use towarcs marking what was in the minds of the people at the time theylished in the name of the duke of Richmond— 
EYRE 12533 Proposed this conven'ion, and whether their purpose was that which this prosecution charges—a purpose of subverting the govern-ment of the country, consequently deposingcerned in this particular measure of a conventhe king, which is an overt ‘act of compatsmp the king’s death. 
EYRE 12534 Gentlemen, I have extracted from the evidence such parts of it, as appear to me matetially to bear upon the charge, in order that you may be able to take a distinct view of it, and to judge for yourselves, whether or not they justify the charge to the extent in which it is laid. 
EYRE 12535 But, before you come to that consideration, you are to attend, and to attend with favour, to every thing that can be urged on the part of A prisoner. " oe entlemen, on the part le prisoner, he part of the written Tiience has been cxtroverted: it-could not well be controverted, I do not think it has been very weightily urged that the prisoner did not take such an active share in these transactions, as te make ban, not only in strictness of law, a principal, bat, to the satisfaction of every man’s mind, 3 Principal in the whole of them. He was net only secretary to one of these societies, but a member of both, and an active member, and, in one or two instances, si ly active. He was the promoter, designer, and inventor of some of the measures, with some degree of mancuvring and management; and there fore I did not think it necessary to trouble you with separately stating the particular evidence which affects him. 
EYRE 12536 Gentlemen, they have made several fair and weighty observations on the credit and materiality of the parol testimony, in respect of the situation of the witnesses, many of them introducing themselves into these societies, for the purpose of erring saturation af what was passing there, antl also in respect of the subject matter of the testimony itvelf, particularly that of arming, as having so necessary connexion with this plan of a convention, which had been projected; sad I think there is a great deal of weight in thet observation; and if it depended entirely upon the circumstance of the arms, to manifest the purpose of a convention, I should stste to you, that, though it was a case of pret suspicion, yet that it hardly went to t! to fix on the convention a wicked purpose of that extraordinary extent which the prosecation has imputed to it, upon all the grounds of evidence, taken together, which the case furnishes. 
EYRE 12537 Gentlemen, they state the case of the prisoner thus : That he isa plain man, of simplicity of manners, peaceable and orderly in his deportment, and a friend to the constitution of his country; having one great political object in his mind, namely, the obtaining a radical reform in the Commoss House oF Parliament, by the introduction of universal suffrage and annual elections—Thet he had taken this object from a plan pub
EYRE 12538 They say, this has been the sole object ofall his measures ; and that, as faras he has been cue tion, his ideas on that subject were taken from that book; and there is certainly a very plain allusion in that book, to the people meeting together for the purpose of considering of the means to execute such parliamentary reform ; that he had an expectation, highly encouraged by the language of that book, that the united sense of a great number of people by their delegates in convention, expressed to parliament, might perhaps have better success than petitions from individuals, whether they were considered as individual men, or as individual societies of men. 
EYRE 12539 They farther insist for the prisoner, that here is to be found no proof of a design to use this convention to any other purpose; and that, as to the horrible purpose of subverting the government, they say, it is not only not proved, but, in the nature of the thing, is improbable, and even impossible, considering how disproportioned the means are to the end—That, if it is to be considered as a pro
EYRE 12540 Convention at Edinburgh, it ought not to be held to be treasonable, because that was treated as a misdemeanor only—They say, whatever violence there may be in the language of the resolutions, addresses, and other papers to which the prisoner has been privy, there is in them no demonstration of the treasonable designs now imputed to him, They appeal to the testimony of a great umber of members of the different societies with whom he has been connected, for the soundness of their principles, and of his own; ! their dutiful attachment to the king, and their reverence for the constitution of parliament, and for the Lord’s House of Parliament, as a branch of it. And the prisoner also appeals to the character given of him by acloud of respectable witnesses, who represent him as a peaceable, sedate, religious and moral man, aving as many of them collect from his conversation, this one object a reform of parliament; and, as a particular manifestation of the conscious ; Annocence of his conduct, they refer you toa proposition which he made to Mr. Sheridan, when that gentleman proposed to bring the proceedings of these societies before parliament, in the spring of the year 1793 : the prisoner offered to show him his books, papers, and, in short, all his correspondence, that had any relation to the subject, and was } 
EYRE 12541 ready to lay them before parliaient
EYRE 12543 T have already given it as my opinion, thag it ought to be conceded to the prisoner, that really, and truly, when he set out in this business, he was sincerely attached to that re form, as expressed in the duke of Richmond’s plan; and probably, at that time, he had no idea of going beyond it; but the question now befure you is, whether he has not gone very far indeed beyond it. 
EYRE 12544 Mr. Solicitor General, in his reply, bas impeached some of the testimony that has been given for the prisoner, by implicating the witnesses belonging to some of these sacieties, in the violent measures which were adopted by these societies, and the Sheffield Socicty in particular, whose duplicity in their correspondence with the Constitutional Society, and the Society of the Friends of the Peuple, of which I have already taken notice, is open to a great deal of observation. Though men declare upon theiroaths that they are peaceable and orderly, and sincerely attached to the constitution of the country, and to their king, yet, if they are found to be en gaged in measures which imply directly the, contrary, it does go very strongly to the credit of their testimony; for, in that case, their testimony is “ Protestatio contra factum. 
EYRE 12545 Gentlemen, in the reply to that part of the evidence given by Mr. Francis, where he said the prisoner appeared to him to be perfectly sincere, it was observed, all this appears hy the evidence to have been mere pretence and pvlicy to carry on the general plan; the reply also observes on the evidence to his character, that though he has established by a cloud of witnesses, and in the most satisfactory manner, that he is in his private character a sedate, moral, religious, good man, yet that his conduct in all these transactions strongly marks, that he is so deeply tinctured with enthusiasm that his moral character may be but a neutral circumstance. The counsel in reply mentioned the famous case, when enthusiasm worked up to the utmostheight produced the fifth Monarchy Men aud that in their case the treason grew out of their religion, 
EYRE 12546 They say on the part of the prosccution, that the acts done by this man, as they appear from all the evidence, are totally inconsistent with the professions he has ‘made and the opinions he says he has entertained, namely, that his real object was only a reform in the Commons House of Parliament. 
EYRE 12547 Gentlemen, upon the whole of this statement of the charge, the defence and reply and upon the whule course of evidence before you, you have now to exercise your judgments. I desire, that in exercising your judgments you will pay no more attention to any thing I have said than that which is necessary to lead you to the consideration of those points which seem immediately to constitute the particular charge against this man, and to the evidence by which it is supponte to those points, and to that evidence y which the defence may be supported, and to the answer given to that defence. Every verdict ought to be the jury’s own and ought to proceed on clear grounds of fact—It ought to do so in a case of this nature more particularly, if possible, because one great object of this prosecution must be that the country ma. that the public justice of it has taken its fair course, and that you, the jury, have well and truly tried and true deliverance made between the gd and the prisoner at the bar, according to the law of the land and the oath which you have taken. 
EYRE 12548 Iam very sorry to have occasion to remark, that during the course of this trial the dignity of a court of justice has but too often been violated by improper behaviour both within and without doors; what it is men can mean by such conduct who do not wish at once to dissolve all government and the bonds of all society, I cannot imagine
EYRE 12552 I suppose there will be no objection to your taking out the indictment; it is not strictly lar, but I dare say it will be consented to on both sides. 
EYRE 12553 Gentlemen, I must apprize you, that after you have withdrawn there can be no refresh ment given to you
EYRE 12563 Gentlemen of the Jury; I ought to take the firstopportunity, after this laborious attendance, very sincerely to thank you for the readiness with which you have sacrificed so much of your personal convenience, and with which you have undergone the fatigue of this trial. 
EYRE 12564 For an account of the demonstrations of joy which were manifested on the acquittal of Thomas Hardy see the New Annual ister for the year 1794, p, 274. 
EYRE 12565 “ The jury slept at the Hummunss every night from the 29th of October, attended by the proper officers of the Court, sworm in the usual form. Orig. Ed. ADDE 
EYRE 12566 NDUM 
EYRE 12567 TO VOLUME XXIV. 
EYRE 12568 TO HARDY’S CASE; 
EYRE 12569 P. 211, 1.2. Note to the words “ October the sixth. 
EYRE 12570 Hardy, the preliminary proceedings from the sixth to the twenty-seventh of October inclusive, are detailed at much greater length than in the text. The following is Sibly’s account : 
EYRE 12571 Session-House, Clerkenwell—Monday, Oct. 6. 
EYRE 12572 The Court met at ten o’clock, when the grand jury bad not a bill ready to return. About two o’clock the Lord Chief Baron appeared on the bench, when a true bill was returned against the following persons for high treason : 
EYRE 12573 Thomas Hardy, John Horne Tooke, Jn. Augustus Bonney, 
EYRE 12574 Thomas Holcroft, John Richter, Matthew Moore, 
EYRE 12575 Stewart Kydd, John Thelwall, Jeremiah Joyce, Richard Hodgson, and William Wardle, John Baxter. 
EYRE 12576 The bill against John Lovett was not found. 
EYRE 12577 The jury thanked the chief justice for the charge delivered to them the day on which the commission opened, which, at their reuest, was ordered to be printed. The judge thanked them in return for the compliment. As he would not affect to say that he delivered it without notes, he would chearfully acquiesce in their request. His lordship observed, that the jury had attended four days, and wished to know if they should proceed any farther that day? or if they meant to adjourn? After this conversation, they agreed to adjourn to next day at ten o’clock. 
EYRE 12578 The Attorney General made the usual motions, that copies of the indictments be given to the prisoners. 
EYRE 12579 The Chief Justice wished to know of the attorney general, what time he would be in readiness to deliver to the prisoners the panel of the jury, &c. as ten days were required before the trials could commence. 
EYRE 12580 The Attorney General said, he should be able to answer, and settle the business next lay. The Chief Justice next called upon the persons who attended as agents, solicitors, and others for the prisoners, and informed them, that by the usual application they may have access to the prisoners. He said, he would not harass the prisoners by having them brought up until their arraignment—to inform them of these particulars, for that copies of their indictments should be left with them, and wished this information might be immediately communicated
EYRE 12582 A List or THE WITNESSES SUBPENAED. 
EYRE 12583 Middlesexr
EYRE 12585 Alexander Aitcheson, student of medicine, residing in Canongate, of Edinburgh, in the pour of Canongate, in the county of Edinurgh, a prisoner in the Tolbooth of Edinburgh
EYRE 12587 Union-crescent, Kent-road, in the county of Surrey, gentleman, one of the clerks of the lice-office, in Lambeth-street, Whitechapel, in the county of Middlesex
EYRE 12589 Southwark, in the county of Surrey, one of : 
EYRE 12590 the clerks in the Auditor’s-office, Somersetlace
EYRE 12592 Francklow, taylor, and now residing with his father, Christopher Coates, of Little Collegestreet, Westminster, in the county of Middlesex
