FRANCIS 11478 I thought so. 
FRANCIS 11480 On the contrary, they seemed very eager about it. There is a circumstance which I do not know whether it is material. Mr. Hardy told me they had asked Mr. Fox to present this petition, and that he had declined it, because he was an enemy to unlversal suftrage. 
FRANCIS 11482 And that Mr. Fox had declined it because he disagreed with them in the prayer of the petition. 
FRANCIS 11484 They were extremely desirous to have it presented, and very ready to have left it generally to the wisdom of the House. I am pretty sure, indeed I am certain, that they for their parts, would have been very well contented to have left itso, if they had been sooner upprized of the forms of the House. 
FRANCIS 11486 They did not give up, as the object of their wishes, universal suffrage and annual representation, but what they were ready to give up, and did give up, was, to change the form of the prayer of their petition. 
FRANCIS 11488 Certainly not—I would Not have had any thing to do with them if they had usedsthat language. 
FRANCIS 11490 That was sometime hefore. 
FRANCIS 11492 Yes ; that was on the 6th of May. 
FRANCIS 11494 No; I do not think they did at all publish it, at least Not in a newspaper. 
FRANCIS 11496 [showing it to Mr. Francis.]—I believe it is. 
FRANCIS 11498 I dare say it is, but I had totally forgot the letter. 
FRANCIS 11500 No, I have not; I see now plainly that they had totally mistaken me, 
FRANCIS 11511 My auswer is in 1 general terms of civility, I was not very ambitious of their praise, and did not wish to enter anto any arguinent with them; most assuredly if I had thought that they had any other views but to obtain a reform of parliament, and that in a proper way by application to parliament, and by instructions from the People to their representatives, and such modes as I conceive the laws of this country to authorize; ifIhad conceived them to have had any other object, I should not only have abstained from corresponding with them, but have considered them as very dangerous men. I thought them very much mistaken and absurd upon the point, but I did not enter into an argument with them. 
FRANCIS 11514 I received it just at the time it bears date. 
FRANCIS 11516 I certainly did. 
FRANCIS 11518 I did; it was an application from a society of the Friends of the People in Portsburgh, part of the suburbs of Edinburgh. 
FRANCIS 11520 I had just arrived at Edinburgh. 
FRANCIS 11524 N o, I never did; I saw the secretary, Mr. Skirving, autecedently to having received this letter, aud I rather suspect that the offer was made to me in consequence of the conversation which passed between him and me. Mr. Skirving then wrote to Mr. Stuart, requesting the Society of the Friends of the People to appoint a delegate to the British Convention, I believe Mr. Stuart’s answer, which has been since printed was, that the society not meeting at that time, it was impossible that they could appoint a delegate, but he dare say that any thing I should do would afterwards be approved by the society; an answer I thought rather extraordinary. Mr. Skirving called upon me several times, and pressed me to take up this idea of Mr. Stuart’s; I objected, he pressed it upon this ground, that if men of education would come amongst them, it might prevent them from falling into absurdities, which otherwise their keeuness and cagerness might lead them to. I declined still to attend upon the ground that Mr. Stuart had proposed ; I suspected he had got them to make this representation to me. This letter was written from a Mr. Moffatt, whom I have since known, because he acted as private agent for Mr. Muir and Mr. Fulmer. 
FRANCIS 11526 I then knew nothing of him, I have scen a great deal of him since that period, andInever knewa more humane map, nor, I believe, a better man. 
FRANCIS 11528 The language was quite the reverse among themselves, that their plan was universal suffrage aud annual parliaments, 
FRANCIS 11530 Certainly nothing of the sort. 
FRANCIS 11532 O certainly not. 
