GARROW 604 You are a king’s messenger 
GARROW 606 When 
GARROW 608 Did you seize any papers
GARROW 610 Look at that letter; did vou find that in the house of the prisoner 
GARROW 612 Alexander Grant said, he believed it to be the prisoner’s and-writing. 
GARROW 613 Copy of a letter to Mr. Edinburgh. 
GARROW 614 Sir, I am directed by the London Corresponding Socicty to send a few copies of their address and resolutions to the Society for a Reform of Parliamentary Representation at Edinburgh ; likewise I have to inform you of their wish to enter into correspondence, and be in close connexion with your suciety : as our cause isone, our sentiments ought to be known to each other, and act with one heart in a matter of such vast importance. We began this society last January; and, since we published our declaration and resolutions, we have increased so rapidly in number and respectability, that we were under the necessity of dividing into different companies to meet at separate houses, and each division sends a delegate to meet as a committee, to transact the business of the whole society, The indorsed papers will inform you more fully of the principles we set out upon. Be so good as to deliver them to the president or secretary of your society. As I know you to bea friend of freedom, you will endeavour to proTavte a union between the two societies; for, by uniting together, we shall become stronger, and a three-fold cord is not easily broken,—I am, sir, with great respect, your most humble Servant, Thomas Harpy, secretary. 
GARROW 615 “ August the 20th, 1792. 
GARROW 822 It appears by its contents to de an answer 40 Mr. Curteis’s letter. 
GARROW 823 I believe you ase by business a printer 
GARROW 825 Did you at any time, and when, become a amember of the London Corresponding Society
GARROW 827 To which of the divisions of the society did you ‘belong 
GARROW 829 Where were the meetings of that division theld 
GARROW 831 Name some of the persons who frequented those meetings of the ‘divisions
GARROW 833 ‘What character was Margarotin the society
GARROW 835 Did he act as such 
GARROW 837 Who else 
GARROW 839 Were you applied to at any of those meetings to print any papers for the divisiuns, or for the society at large
GARROW 841 When were you, if ever, applied to to print 
GARROW 843 ‘Whom was that application made to you by 
GARROW 845 "Wes that application made by him at the society, or at one of the division meetings 
GARROW 847 I do not ask you the contents of that paper; but did you afterwards print any thing else for the society, which you were paid for by any of those persons that you have named 
GARROW 849 Upon whose application did you print that posting bill
GARROW 851 Do you mean the same Mr. Richter that Lie have named as a member of the society 
GARROW 853 Did you ever see Mr. Richter at any of those meetings of the divisions at which the prisoner att i—Yes. 
GARROW 854 You say you undertook to print that which Richter applied to you to print
GARROW 856 Who pein pou for them 
GARROW 858 Were there any directions ig you as to the time by which they would be required to be printed ? was there any extraordinary expedition required 
GARROW 860 How soon after you had ordered them to be sent to Mr. Hardy’s did you see Hardy
GARROW 862 Did he pay you for those which you had ordered to be sent
GARROW 864 Did he pay before the order came for sending them back to your house, or afterwards
GARROW 866 And then the papers were returned to your house
GARROW 868 What became of them after they were sent back to your house? did the circumstance which you were about to state come to your knowledge from Hardy, or did you ever converse with him upon. that subject 
GARROW 870 Do you know of your own knowledge what became of the papers after they were returned to your house 
GARROW 874 Do you know in fact that any of those bills that you printed, and which Hardy paid you fur, were stuck up in the streets of this town
GARROW 876 Had you any conversation with Mr. Hardy respecting those papers which Carter was supposed to have had something to do with
GARROW 878 What passed between Mr. Hardy and you upon that subject 
GARROW 880 Were they delivered out of your possession
GARROW 882 After that Hardy told you Carter had been taken up
GARROW 884 For putting up the bills, where 
GARROW 886 Did any thing more pass upon that occasion 
GARROW 888 Do you know that Carter was in fact in prison for posting up those bills
GARROW 890 Look at this, and tell us whether this is one of the bills that you printed 
GARROW 892 Had you any eonversation with Mr. Hardy with respect to any other papers which you had been applied to to print, and which you had ee print—did Mr. Hardy say any thing to you about your having declined to print for. the society 
GARROW 894 The first order you complied with was for five hundred 
GARROW 896 Who gave you the additional order 
GARROW 898 Had you any conversation with Mr. Hardy about that additional order
GARROW 900 Had you refused to print them 
GARROW 902 How long did you continue a member of the society after you had refused so to print for them
GARROW 904 How much was the sum lie paid you 
GARROW 906 You named Mr. Margarot as one ofthe persons psesent at those meetings: in what character did he act 
GARROW 908 n what character did the prisoner, Hardy, act
GARROW 918 Were you ever at the Unicorn
GARROW 920 Try to recollect any of the members you saw there 
GARROW 944 This is a draught of a letter to Skirving; the original letter was found in Skirving's possession. 
GARROW 945 “ London, May 17, 1793. 
GARROW 946 “ Sir, The London Corresponding Society eagerly seizes the opportunity of Mr. Urquhart returning to Edinburgh to request of your socicty a renewal of correspondence, and a more intimate co-operation, in that which both societies alike seek, viz. a reform of parliamentary representation, We are very sensible that no society can of itself bring about that desirable end. Let us therefore unite as much as possible, not only with each other, but with every socicty throughout the nation. Qur petitions, you will have Arana have all of them been unsuccessful: our attention must now, therefore, be turned to some more effectual means. From your society we would willingly learn them; and you, on your part, may depend upon our adopting the firmest means, provided they are constitutional: and we hope the country will not be behind hand with us. 
GARROW 947 “ This war has already opened the eyes of many, and, should it continue much longer, there is no answering for its effects on the minds of the people. 
GARROW 948 Our society has met with much persecutuon; nevertheless, we fo on increasin Quinbers and political knowledge. Wishing you and our cause all success, we remain mesg cordially,—sir, for the Londow Correspanding 
GARROW 949 Society, your friends and fellow-labourers, 
GARROW 950 (Signed) M. Maaeanor, chairman, 
GARROW 951 Thomas Harpy, seeretary. 
GARROW 952 “No. 9, Piccadilly. 
GARROW 953 o the secretary of the Society of the Friends of the People, Edinburgh. Addressed on the back thus: 
GARROW 954 “Mr. William Skirving, secretary to the convention of the Friends of the People, Edinburgh. 
GARROW 955 Indorsed, “ Received the 10th of June, 1793; answered the 20th of July. 
GARROW 956 “ Edinburgh, 25th of Mey, 1793. 
GARROW 957 “ Mr. Hardy, Sir, Mr. Urquhart did me the pleasure to call on Thursday afternoon, and delivered your letter of the 17th cusremt. I am much pleased with the contents of it, and shall lay it before the first meeting of our societies here, which however does not take place till Monday seven-night. I weuld have acknowledged the receipt of your favour by yesterday’s post, but was too much emluyed in removing our household to another lodging to attend to any thing else. 
GARROW 958 f either you in England, or we in Sceotland should attempt separately the reform which we, I trust, seek to obtain, we should, by so doing, only expose ous weakness, and manifest our ignorance of the corruption which opposes our important und ig. If we sought only the extirpation of one set of interested men from the management of national affairs, that place might be given to another set, without affecting the vitals adverse to the system of reform. These might be easily accomplished ; but to cut 2 deep and wide rooted prejudices, to give effectual energy to the dictates of truth, in favour of public virtue and national prosperity, in eppesition to self and all its interested habits, and to withstand and overawe the final efforts of the powers of darkness, is the work of the whole, and not of a part; a work to which mankind, till this awful period, were never adequate, because never till now disposed to traternize ; not merely, or only I trust, from the sense of the common danger to which we are exposed, but from the ennobling prim ciple of universal benevolence. 
GARROW 959 “1 know no greater service that I can do my conty than to promote the unien you so wisely desire ; and I am happy to assure you that I have hitherto discovered no sentiment in our association adverse to the mest intimate and brotherly union with the associationsin England. 
GARROW 960 I think the minds of all must, in the nature of things, be now turned to more effectual means of reform. Not one person was convinced of the necessity of it by the most convincing arguments of reason, together with the most unequivocal expressions of universe} 
GARROW 961 desire; what then is to be hoped for fromto be apprehensive of the abilities of our own repetition? I am only afraid that the bow in England against reform was so contracted that in returning, it may break. You would willingly learn, you say, from us: I own that we ought to be forward in this: we have at once, in great wisdom, perfected our plan of organization; and, if we were in the same independent state of mind asthe people of England, we would be able to take the lead. The associations with you are no more, I fear, (excuse my freedom) than an aristocracy for the good of the people: they are indeed moderate, firm, and virtuous ; and better cannot be : but we are the people themselves, and we are the first to show that the people can both judge and resolve, if undirected by faction, with both wisdom and moderation. 
GARROW 962 “I have not a higher wish, in the present exertions for reform, than to see the people universally and regularly associated, because I am persuaded that the present disastrous engagements will issue in ruin, and the people then must provide for themselves; and it would be unhappy, when we should be ready to act with unanimity, to be occupied about organization, without which, however, anarchy must ensue. We will not need but to be prepared for the event, to stand and see the “salvation of the Lord.’ Let us therefore take the hint given us by our opposers ; let us begin in earnest to make up our minds relative to the extent of reform which we ought to seek; be prepared to justify it, and to controvert objections; let us model the whole in the Public mind; let us provide every stake and stay of the tabernacle which we would erect, so that when the tabernacles of oppression in the palaces of ambition are broken down, under the madness and folly of their supporters, we may then, without anarchy and all dangerous delay, erect at once our tabernacle of righteousness, and may the Lord himself be in it! 
GARROW 963 “ How hurtful to the feelings of a reflecting mind to look back to the wretched state in which the Roman monarchy, enfeebled and ken by its own corruptions, left the nations which it had subjected! like ‘ sheep without a shepard they soon became a prey to every invader, because there was none to gather and unite them: had they, foresecing the evil, associated for mutual detence, no robber would have been able to enslave them; the would have given laws to all parties, as well as to theinsclves; all separate colonies and nations would have sought their alliance: but mot having virtue to associate and heal the divisions, and root out the selfish spirit, which ambition-fostering governments procure to their subjects, they fell under oppressors, from under whose iron sceptre they have never yet been able to deliver themselves. We may suppuse an event which we deprecate; nay, should we not be prepared for every possible issue of the present unprecedented divisions of mankind, we have a right managers, who are so afraid to depart from precedent, that, like men of detail, they may be inadequate to the task of preserving the vessel from shipwreck, now grappling with danger, not only great, but new and uncommon. If the present ministry fail, who after them shall be trusted? It requires little penetration to see the anarchy and discord which will follow: it will be such that nothing short of a general union among the people them selves will be able to heal: haste, therefore, to associate, at least to be ready to associate. If then, such a broken state of things should take place, the civil broils that would necessarily ensue, would soon subside before the united irresistible voice of the whole. Do not, I entreat you, hesitate thinking sueh a work premature as yet: but a month, and then it may be too late. A malignant may be already formed, and only waiting for the halting of the present managers ; it will then be too late to seck to‘subject to deliberation, after a party has dared the act of rebeh lien. If you go no further than separate meetings in different towns, we will not be able to confide in your confraternity, because, while in such a state, you may be but the tools of a faction. We could have all confidence, and unite with all affection in one assembly of commissioners from all countries of the world, if we knew they were chosen by the unbiassed voice of the people, because they would come up with the same disinterested views and desires as ourselves, havi all agreed to a common centre of union aud interest; but we could not confide in fellowcitizens who kept aloof from such union, and would not previously affiliate in one great and indivisible family. n troubling you with so long an epistle, I have atleast shown my inclination to core respond. I have also hinted at things which appear to me the present subjects of consideration, because I am desirous of your opinion upon them; I have possibly wrote with too much freedom, but you will place it to account of zeal in the cause, and on this score discharge my design, which is disinterested and hilanthropic. With sincere esteem and affection, Lam, sir, your well-wisher, “W. Surrvine, secretary. 
GARROW 979 We now propose to read an answer to the last letter, found in the possession of the prisoner. 
GARROW 1008 We have the same anxious desire, provided it can be done consistently with the rules of law, that the jury may be accommodated. 
GARROW 1162 I believe you are a printer by business— Yes. Were you employed at any time to print a number of these papers
GARROW 1164 When were you employed
GARROW 1166 By whom were you employed
GARROW 1168 Was any body with him when he came with it
GARROW 1170 Were there more persons than one
GARROW 1172 What orders did he give F ia respecting it
GARROW 1175 We submit that it is. 
GARROW 1177  submit to your lordsbtp that it is the clearest evidence in the wor after that which your lordships and the jury have already heard. We have proved, by a great variety of evidence, much of it under the hand and signature of the prisoner now at id lordship’s bar, much by papers found in is custody at the time of his apprehension, a clear connexion and conspiracy upon the subject of this high treason between Mir. Thelwall and the prisoner. We therefore submit to your lordships with confidence, but with deference undoubtedly, that all the acts of Mr. Thelwall, or any other person against whom we have given evidence, fitto be submitted to the jury of their accession to the peneral plan of the conspiracy, is clearly evidence against every man charged with that conspiracy ; this therefore is an act of Mr. Thelwall’s ; it is hardly worth discussing in this instance, only that it is as well to do it the first time that the objection arises; but we have other evidence, such as the defendant’s paying for the printing; but having given evidence of Thelwall and Hardy being parties to the neral conspiracy alleged as high treason, we have a right to give in evidence any acts of these conspirators relative to that object against any of them. 
GARROW 1181 I take the liberty of stating to the Court, that the ground and foundation upon which I humbly submit to read this Paper is, that it is an instrument to carry into lect the general high treason charged in this indictment. One stage or step of the conspiracy being a paper to excite the subjects of this country to desert their allegiance, and in defiance of that allegiance to set about to call a convention by force to assume the power of the legislature. It is as an instrument and a paper to carry that into effect that we desire to read it. 
GARROW 1185 I shall not by any ingenuity of my friend be drawn into the argument of an abstract question, I forbore to state the paper, lest it might be said I was giving the effect of it; I will now state the passage which I say demonstrates that it is of that quality, “You may ask, perhaps, by what means shall we seek redress? We answer, that men in a state of civilized society are bound to seek redress of the grievances from the laws as long as any redress can be obtained by the laws. But our common Master whom we serve (whose law is a law of liberty, and whose service is perfect freedom) has taught us not to expect to gather grapes from thorns, nor figs from thistles, We must have redress from our own laws, and not from the laws of our plunderers, enemies, and oppressors. There is no redress tor a nation circumstanced as we are, but ina fair, free, and full representation of the people. 
GARROW 1186 Now we allege and humbly insist that we have given much evidence to show that the purpose of this conspiracy, which is charged to be high treason, was, by force to assume the power of legislation, in despite of the constituted authorities of the country, as they at present happily exist here, by substituting a convention of the people. 
GARROW 1189 What directions did Mr. Thelwall give you when he brought you the manuecript for the purpose of printing 
GARROW 1191 What were you to do with the two thousand when you had printed them? ; 
GARROW 1196 Did you print the number ordered 
GARROW 1198 How soon did you print them 
GARROW 1200 Did you know him before 
GARROW 1202 Were you a member of the society yourself
GARROW 1204 You had then probably been present at some of the meetings of the society
GARROW 1206 Had you been present at any meetings of the society before you met Mr. Hardy upon the stairs at the Globe tavern 
GARROW 1208 Had you ever seen him there 
GARROW 1210 In what character did he act at the meetings ? In the character of secretary. 
GARROW 1211 What passed when you met him on the stairs
GARROW 1213 You said February, do you mean February or January 
GARROW 1215 Was it on the day at which the resolutions were come to
GARROW 1217 a what time of the day was it that you saw Mr. Thelwall when he brought you the copy 
GARROW 1219 At what time was it that you carried the two hundred copies to the Globe tavern 
GARROW 1221 You returned home with these two hundred by the direction of Mr. Hardy, and came back to the Globe tavern to dinner 
GARROW 1223 At what time was that 
GARROW 1225 Were you present at the time these resolutions were proposed in the society
GARROW 1227 Was it on the day upon which the resolutions purport by Mr. Thelwall’s paper to be come to, that you went to the Globe tavern, or amonth after 
GARROW 1229 Look at the paper, and tell us whether it was January or February; is the date correct 
GARROW 1231 Then do you believe it was the 18th of January, and not the 18th of February, upon which you had the copy 
GARROW 1233 Have you any doubt of that 
GARROW 1235 When you returned again, was it to a private dinner or a public dinner of the society 
GARROW 1237 Was there any chairman at the dinner? did you see any person in the chair
GARROW 1239 Was Mr. Hardy there 
GARROW 1241 When you returned to dinner, did you carry any copies of the paper you had printed with you 
GARROW 1243 What did you do with these copies afterwards 
GARROW 1245 Where from 
GARROW 1247 From the meeting 
GARROW 1249 Were they brought to the meeting
GARROW 1251 What was done with them there
GARROW 1253 Where did youseethat? — Somebody handed it round the table, I am sure I do not krow who it was. 
GARROW 1254 How many persons might there be assembled at that meeting 
GARROW 1256 How late did you stay 
GARROW 1258 Did you print any more of them at any time 
GARROW 1260 When
GARROW 1262 By whose order
GARROW 1264 What did you do with them when you had printed them
GARROW 1266 What did you do with the rest
GARROW 1268 What people
GARROW 1270 And did you deliver them as they came for them 
GARROW 1272 Did you print any more than the two thousand which Mr. Thelwall originally ordered? 
GARROW 1273 —To the best of my recollection I printed six thousand more. 
GARROW 1274 By whose orders did you print them 
GARROW 1276 Were you ever desired to stop, and when
GARROW 1278 Did you go on printing them till the month of March 
GARROW 1280 How many thousand might you print in all 
GARROW 1282 Who paid you for them
GARROW 1284 On whose credit did you print them? did any body at any time promise to pay you for them 
GARROW 1286 Had you any conversation with Mr. Hardy about being paid for them
GARROW 1288 Who desired you to do that 
GARROW 1290 “AT A GENERAL MEETING 
GARROW 1291 “ op THE« LONDON CORRESPONDING SOCIETY, “ Held at the Grose Tavern, Strand, “On MONDA Ythe on Day of JANUARY, “1794. 
GARROW 1292 “CITIZEN JOHN MARTIN, 1n THE CHAIR. 
GARROW 1293 he following Appress to the Prorte of Great Britain and Ireland, was read and agreed to. 
GARROW 1294 Cinzens, We find the nation involved im a war, by which, in the course of ONE Campaign, immense numbers of our countrymen have been slaughtered; a vast expense has been incurred, our Trade, Comterce and Manufactories, are almost de‘ stroyed, and many of our Manufacturers and Artists are ruined, and their families starving. o add to our affliction, we have reason to expect, that other taxes will soon be added to the intolerable load of imposts and impositions with which we are already overwhelmed; for the purpose of defraying the expenses which have been incurred, in a fruitless crusade, to re-establish the odious despotism of France. “When we contemplate the principles of this war, we confess ourselves to be umabke to approve of it, as a measure, either of justice or discretion; and if we are to form our calculation of the result, from what has already passed, we can only lock forward to defeat and the eternal disgrace of the British name. 
GARROW 1295 “ While we are thus engaged in an expensive and rumous and foreign war; our state at home is not less deplorable. 
GARROW 1296 “ We are every day told, by those persons who are interested in supporting the Corruption List, and an inmumerable Host of Sinecure Placemen, that the Constitution of England, is the perfection of human wisdom; that our laws (we should rather say, TaErr laws) are the perfection of justice; and that their Administration of those laws is so impartial and so ready, as to afford an equal remedy, both to the rich and to the poor; by means of which, we are said to be placed in a state of absolute freedom, and that our Rights and Liberties are so well secured to us as to render all invasion of them impossible. 
GARROW 1297 “ When we ask, how we enjoy these transcendant privileges; we are referred to MAGNA CHARTA, and the BILL of RIGHTS; and the glorious REVOLUTION in the ig 1688, is held out to us, as the bulwark of British liberty. 
GARROW 1298 “ Cit1zens; We have referred to Magna Charta, to the Bill of Rights, and to the Revolution, and we certainly do find that our ancestors did establish wise and wholesome laws: but we as certainly find, that, of the venerable Constitution of our ancestors, hardly a vestige remains. 
GARROW 1299 “ The only Chapters of the Great Charter, which are now in legal existence, are the 14th and 29th. 
GARROW 1300 he important provision of the 14th Chapter, runs thus: 
GARROW 1301 “A Freeman shall not be amerced for a smal! fault, but after the manner of the faut ; and for a great fault after the’ greatness thereof, saving to him his contenement ; and a Merchant likewise, saving to him his merchandize ; and any other’s villain than ours shall be likewise amerced, saving to him his wainage; And none of the said amerciaments shall be assessed, but by the oath of honest and lawful men of the Victnage.’ 
GARROW 1302 “ But by the usurped power of the judges, in assessing Fines (and what Fines !!) in the cases of Misdemeanor; this glorious Right of the Subject, of having these fines assessed by the Jury (the only possible protection from slavery and the vilest oppression), is unjustly fat infamously ravished from us. 
GARROW 1303 he provision of the 29th chapter, runs thus : 
GARROW 1304 “ «No Freeman shall be taken or imprisoned, or be disseised of his freehold, or liberties, or free customs, or be outlawed, or exiled, or any otherwise destroyed, nor we will not pass upon him, nor condemn him, but by the lawful judgment of his peers, or by the law of the land. We will sell to no man, we will not deny, or defer to any man, either justice or right.’ 
GARROW 1305 he various methods now in constant tice by which the benefits of this provision are totally defeated and destroyed, might induce us to suppose, that the GREAT CHARTER has been repealed ; if we did not assuredly know, that it is the fundamental basis of our constitution; which even the REAL representatives of the people (much less the miserable nominees of HELSTUNE and OLD SARUM) have not the right, nor (as we trust it will be found by experience) the POWER to repeal. Yet what do we find in practice? Unconstitutional and illegal INFORMATIONS EX OFFICIO, that 1s, the arbitrary will of the king's Attorney General, usurping the oflice of the ACCUSING Jury; and the interested oath of a vile common informer, with the judsment of as vile a common trading or pensioned justice, substituted in the room of our birthright, an impartial trial by our country. 
GARROW 1306 Add to this, that the exorbitant expense of judicial proceedings, the novel practice of arbitrarily and repeatedly annulling the vericts of Juries, and the dilatory practice of the courts, most openly and shamefully contradict the clause which forbids the denial, the delay, and the sale of justice, 
GARROW 1307 “ A man accused of Fetony (for which by the comnion law of England, his life and goods are forfeited) may be bailed on finding two sureties for forty pounds each; but upon a charge of MISDEMEANOUR by words only, bail to the amount of ONE. THOUSAND POUNDS has been demanded. 
GARROW 1308 “Upon conviction also, for such misdemeanour, enormous fines, long and cruel imprisonments unknown to our ancient laws, and unsanctioned by any new statutes, have of late (and but of late) been too frequently and too oppressively inflicted. And all this, although by this bill of rights it is declared, that ‘ excessive bail shall not be demanded, “nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.’ 
GARROW 1309 “ If we look to IRELAND we find that acknowledged privilege of the people, to meet for the support and protection of their rights and liberties, is attempted, by terror, to be taken away by a late infamous act of parliament: hilst titles of honour! No, but of dishonour, are lavished; and new sources of corruption opened, to gratify the greedy prostitution of those, who are the instruments of this oppression. 
GARROW 1310 “In SCOTLAND, the Wicked Hand of Power has been impudently exerted, without even the wretched formality of an act of Parliament, Magistrates have furcibly intruded into the peaceful and lawful meetings of Freemen; and, by force (not only without law, but against law), have, under colour of magisterial office, interrupted thcir deliberations, and prevented their association. 
GARROW 1311 he wisdom and good conduct of the 
GARROW 1312 BRITISH CONVENTION at Edinburgh, has been such, as to defy their bitterest enemies to name the law which they have broken ; notwithstanding which, their papers have been seized, and made use of as evidence against them, and many virtuous and meritorious individuals, have been, as cruelly as unjustly for their virtuous actions disgraced and destroyed by infamous and illegal sentences of transportation. And these unjust and wicked judgments have been executed with a rancour and malignity, never before known in this land; our respectable and beloved Fellow-citizens have been cast Fer TERED into Dungeons amongst felons in the Hulks, to which they were not sentenced. 
GARROW 1313 “ Citizens, We all approve the sentiments, and are daily repeating the words, for which these our respectable and valuable brethren are thus unjustly and inhumanly suffering. We too, associate in order to obtain a fair, free, and full representation of the ple in a house of real national representatives. Are we also willing to be treated as Fetons, for claiming this our inherent right, which we are determined never to forego but with om lives, and which none but thieves and traitors can wish to withhold from us? Consider, it is one and the same corrupt and corrupting influence which at this time domineers in Ireland, Scotland, and England. Can you believe that those who send virtuous Irishmen, and Scotchmen fettered with felons to Botany Bay, do not meditate and will not attempt to seize the first moment to send us after them? Or, if we had not just cause to apprehend the Same inhuman treatment; if instead of the most imminent danger, we were in perfect safety from it; should we not disdain to enjo any liberty or privilege whatever, in whi our honest Irish and Scotch brethren did not oquatly and as fully participate with us? Their cause then and ours is the same. And it is both our duty and our interest to stand or fall together. ‘The Irish parliament and the Scotch judges, actuated by the same English influence, have brought us directly to the point. There is no farther step beyond that which they have taken. We are at issue. We must now choose at once either liberty or slavery for ourselves and our posterity. Will you wait till BARRACKS are erected in every village, and till subsidized Hessians and Hanoveriais are upon us? 
GARROW 1314 “You may ask perhaps, by what means shall we seek redress ? 
GARROW 1315 “ We answer, that men ina state of civilized society are bound to seek redress of the puevances from the laws; as long as any reress can be obtained by the laws. But our common Master whom we serve (whose law is a law of liberty, and whose service is perfect freedom) has taught us not to expect to gather grapes from thorns, nor figs from thistles. We must have redress from our own laws and not from the laws of our plunderers, enemies, and oppressors, 
GARROW 1316 “ THERE IS NO REDRESS FOR A NATION CIRCUMSTANCED AS WE ARE, BUT IN A FAIR, FREE, AND FULL REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE. 
GARROW 1317 “ RESOLVED, that during the ensuing session of parliament, the general committee of this society do meet daily, for the purpose of watching the proceedings of the parliament and of the administration of the government of this country. And that upon the first introduction of any bill, or motion inimical to the liberties of the people, such as, for LANDING FOREIGN TROOPS IN GREAT-BRITAIN or IRELAND, for suspending the HABEAS CORPUS ACT, for proclaiming MARTIAL LAW, OR FOR PREVENTING THE PEOPLE FROM MEETING IN SOCIETIES for CONSTITUTIONAL INFORMATION, or any OTHER INNOVATION ofa similar nature, that, on any of these emergencies, the general committce shall issue summonses to the delegates of each division, and also to the secretarics of the different societies affiliated and corresponding with this society, forthwith to call a GENERAL CONVENTION of the PEUPLE, to be held at such place and in such a manner as shall be specified in the summons, for the purpose of taking such measures into their consideration. 
GARROW 1318 “ Resolved, that the preceding Address and Resolution be signed by the chairman, and printed and published. 
GARROW 1319 J. MARTIN, cuarrman. , HARDY, secretary. 
GARROW 1320 “ Committee Room, January 23, 1794, 
GARROW 1321 “ Resorven Unanimousty, That a hundred thousand copies of the address to the people of Great Britain and Ireland, voted at the general mceting, be printed and distributed by the society. 
GARROW 1322 “ Resolced Unanimously, That the following toasts, drank at the anniversary dinner of the society, be printed at the end of the address. 
GARROW 1323 J. THE RIGHTS OF MAN; and may Britons never want spirit to assert them. 
GARROW 1324 “II. The British Conzention, lately held at Edinburgh ; and success to the important object it had in view. 
GARROW 1325 STII. Citizen William Skirving, charged by the sentence of the court of justiciary, with the honour of being the cause of calling that convention, 
GARROW 1326 “IV, The London Corresponding Society, and other patriotic Societies of Great Britain and Ireland. 
GARROW 1327 “VW. Citizen Maurice Margarot, the condemned delegate of this society; and may his manly and patrivtic conduct be rewarded by the attachment of the people. 
GARROW 1328 “ Citizen Gerrald then arose, and in a stream of inspiring eloquence, pronounced the just eulogium of this truly valuable citizen, so emphatically called by Citizen Aitcheson (one of the witnesses on his trial) the SECOND 
GARROW 1329 SIDNEY. He concluded with wishing we might rather die the last of British Freemen than live the first of slaves. 
GARROW 1330 “VI. Citizen Joseph Gerrald, the other Delegate of this Society, now under prosecution; and may his concluding sentiment be engraved upon every British heart. 
GARROW 1331 “VII. The transactions at Toulon. May Britons remember them as they ought, and profit by dear bought experience. 
GARROW 1332 “VIII. Citizen Hamiltun Rowan, and the other true patriots of Ireland: and may the authors of the Contention-bill find that they have committed a bull. 
GARROW 1333 “IX. Citizens Muir, and Palmer—May their sentence be spcedily reversed, and Botany-bay be peopled with a colony of real criminals. 
GARROW 1334 “X. Success to the arms of Freedom against whomsoever directed; and confusion to despots with whomsoever allied. 
GARROW 1335 “XI. All that is good in every constitution ; and may we never be superstitious enough to reverence in any that which is good for nothing. 
GARROW 1336 “XIL. Citizen Thomas Paine—May his vise tue rise superior to calumny and suspicion, and his name still be dear to Britons. 
GARROW 1337 “XU. Lord Loughborough, the Earl of Moira, Sir Gilbert Elliot, and the other apostates from liberty: and may they enjoy the profits of their apostacy so long as they live. 
GARROW 1338 “XIV. A speedy and honourable peace with the brave Republic of France. 
GARROW 1339 “XV. The starving manufacturers and neglected peasantry of Great Britain and Ireland. 
GARROW 1340 “XVI. Citizen John Frost ; anda specdy restoration of that health which he lost in the dungeons of Newgate. 
GARROW 1341 “XVHL. The virtuous and spirited Citizens, now in confinement for matters of opinion : and may we show them by our conduct, that they are not forgotten. 
GARROW 1342 Mr. Garrow to Davidson.—You said you were a inember of the London Corresponding Society; do you know John Martin
GARROW 1344 Where did you see him: I saw him once in his own house. 
GARROW 1345 Was he a member of the London Corresponding Society 
GARROW 1347 Did you everseehim at any of the mee ings of that society 
GARROW 1349 as he there at the meeting that you have now been speaking of at the Globe tavern 
GARROW 1351 That you have told us was a meeting of that society 
GARROW 1353 Was Martin then amember of that Society
GARROW 1355 Did any body attend that were not members at the meetings of the. society 
GARROW 1357 Upon your oath did you ever know any persons attend the meetings of the society that were not members of the society 
GARROW 1359 pon your oath did you ever know any body attend them but the members? Was the business that you were with Mr. Martin upon, at his house, relative to the London Corresponding Society 
GARROW 1361 What was its nature 
GARROW 1363 What passed between you and Mr. Martin respecting the latter part of the paper 
GARROW 1365 Was that between the 18th and 20th, or after the meeting
GARROW 1367 The day after the meeting 
GARROW 1369 I do not know whether you printed this
GARROW 1371 One of the Jury—You have not told us yet whether you knew that there was any one individual who attended those meetings that was not a member 
GARROW 1373 Jurymun
GARROW 1379 That applies to the dinner at the Globe
GARROW 1381 In the division meeting could any person who chose to ask for a acket, without being introduced by a member as a visitor, obtain it3—No. 
GARROW 1382 Do you know Mr. Thelwall 
GARROW 1384 Look at this, and tell me whether you believe this to be his hand-writing (showing a letter ta the wiiness]
GARROW 1386 My lords, I will state the rounds on which we offer this letter as eviBence against the prisoner. We have already given evidence to prove that Mr. Thelwall was not only a member of the London Corresponding Society, but that in the publication of the resolutions passed at the anniversary meeting, and their toasts, he acted as the agent of the society. I now propose to read a letter of Mr. Thelwall’s, as a farther act of that agency. The letter purports to have contained several of these addresses ; it purports, and it will appear likewise by the proof, te have contained several seditious songs, stated to have been composed and sung by Mr. Thelwall at that meeting, which we allege to be another, perhaps a subordinate and inferior branch atthat conspiracy which was to bring all the constituent authorities in the country into contempt, so as to mature the public mind for that great change which we slate to have been the ultimate object of the society. We submit to your lordships, that any act of Mr. Thelwall’s, so in furtherance of this cunspiracy, is evidence against the defendant. It also gives an account of the state of the other affiliated societies in different parts of the world. I cannot state it better than in the language of the letter : London is not the only place that is alive: Scotland is full of liberty boys. Sheffield and many other towns are mentioned as being ina state of expectation for that great catastrophe which they all looked to about this period. 
GARROW 1394 Yo a person of the name. of Vellam. 
GARROW 1395 ft certainly is not in my power to judge of the anxiety of my learned friends about the consequences of producing this letter, except as that anxiety induces them to object to its being read. It appears, that they are appre hensive of the effect and tendency of this letter, because they have made all the observations that occurred to them on the effect and tendency of this letter; and I am sure they will do me the justice to believe, that I mean no offence to them when I say I cannot discern any thing that is not justly, to be described to be argument upon the effect and tendency of the letter, which is argument ta he addressed to the jury. We conceive it is fit to be received in evidence, in order to cons vince the jury that this was done as a part of the agency of ‘Thelwall. But if we are not able to make it out in that way, we insist that the publishing by a larger circle that which was ordered to be printed for general publication, is clear evidence, being in furtherance of the general conspiracy. 
GARROW 1396 My friends seem to suppose that they can limit the acts of those who are not at presentat the bar, for consideration to things done either by themselves or their express order. We are very much mistaken if that be the rule of law. We humbly apprehend, that without revious concert as to the particolar fact done A. A. not being then upon his trial, if B. should have done the act, having been proved before to be a party to the general conspiracy, to be carried into effect by divers means and various instruments, that it is fit to receive evidence of the acts of all the parties to that conspiracy, in furtherance of that generak design ; for instance, it is not required that, in order to give evidence, that a conspirator hired his horse at a particular place, the hirin of which would connect him with the general conspiracy, the ground having been made, it is not necessary to show that he, to the person then trying, had communicated that he meant to go there to hire a horse; but the fact of his having done it is an accession to the general purposes of the conspiracy. All the acts of these persons, limiting it to the objects of the conspiracy, not extending it to crimes of another dye or character, but i furtherance of the general design of the grad conspiracy, we insist, coming from whom they may, whether it be the party upon: trial, whether it be in consequence of the orders given by him, whether communieated before or after, are evidence receivable, subject undoubtedly to the observations to be made upon their greater or lesser effect. 
GARROW 1400 He says, “ You will also receive enclosed several copies of Addresses published by the society. It is upon that 
GARROW 1401 ‘ound I submit it to your lordship. 
GARROW 1409 Certainly not. 
GARROW 1414  
GARROW 1415 lord, I now proj to Jead a letter upon the principle of Nes Wan & 
GARROW 1416 correspondence between one of the persons proved to have been a party in the conspiracy, and another person at a distant part of t kingdom, likewise proved to be a party in the conspiracy: it is a letter from Mr. Martin, after the dinner at the Globe tavern, to Mr. Margarot, who was at that time in custody in the Tolbooth, at Edinburgh, having been one of the persons apprehended by the magistracy at Edinburgh, as a part of that British Convention whom the magistracy dispersed. The letter is in terms calculated to excite the spirit of the brethren of the North: it hkewise contains a declaration of the universal approbation of the conduct of those delegates in the North, and it states other circumstances of a public nature; the maner in which his majesty had met Ais parliament, as it is stated —the manner in which his majesty is stated by this writer to have been received by the people, and insulted, and his life endangered, as this writer states it, still poing on with a view to excite and encourage them in a distant part of the kingdom, by disseminating the same doctrines, which, in .London, these people disseminated. 
GARROW 1420 Davison proved that he was a member 
GARROW 1428 It is a letter addressed to Margarot, at Edinburgh, he being a misSionary from this society. 
GARROW 1435 It was stated to be an excitaYon in terms. 
GARROW 1519 I believe you are an attorney 
GARROW 1521 an you acquainted with Mr. John Martin
GARROW 1523 Are you acquainted with his character of hand-writing 
GARROW 1525 Be so good as look at that letter, and tell me whether the whole of it, in your judgment, is his writing, particularly the signature; do you believe that to be Mr. Martin's handwriting 
GARROW 1527 Be so good as louk at the superscription, do you believe that likewise to be his hand-writing 
GARROW 1529 Richmond Buildings Jan. 22, 1794. 
GARROW 1530 “¢ My dear sir: I dare say you think I have forgot you, from my not having written to you, but you know my sentiments so well that it wag unnecessary for me, and would probably have been improper to say much on the subject of your mission ; and with regard to lord Edward, I have not been able to get any thing like a settlement, To-morrow is the first day of the term, when I shall rule the sheriff to return the writ of summons. 
GARROW 1531 “ We had a meeting on Monday. I was in the chair. The newspaper gives our numbers at 500, but we were nearer 1,500. Every thing was well conducted, that is to say, re; larly ; andthe roceedings were tolerably bold. Mr. Hardy, I dave say, has sent you a copy of the address and resolution. 
GARROW 1532 “ Your conduct receives universal approbation; and though I at one time dreaded the want of money, yet that is now over. Those who opposed the subscription at first, are now putting their hands to the very bottom of their ts, and swear by God you shall be supported with the last guinea. We must have another general meeting in a chapel or some large place, and declare the purpose of a subscription, and, J think, we shall get plenty of the needful for that and other purposes. Have you read my letter to lord Lauderdale? Do you incline to try the writ of error? What do the Scotch lawyers think ofit? And what do you think of the legal knowledge of my countrymen? I firmly believe that the law “A the only science of which they know nothing. 
GARROW 1533 c The king went yesterday to meet his parliament. They sat till six o’clock this morning. The papers are notout; but I am told only twelve members were for peace. I am glad the minister has so great a majori within doors for the war, and that the peop have a greater majority without doors against the war. The swinish rogues had the impudence to write, no war, on all the doors and corners of the Houses of Lords and Commonsand they had even the audacity to an hiss while his most sacred majesty was passing to, and from, the House. Nay, I am told, a woman, moved and seduced by the instigation of the devil, and traitorously intending, &c. did, in St. James’s Park, take off her patten and threw it with all her force at his majesty, whereby the glass of the state-coach was broken, and his majesty put in fear. God save the king, for if, &c. (as Gerrald says), T am happy to find you are in good spirits suffering the mild and just sentence of the law. You may remember thatI told you to be thankful if you were not hanged. 
GARROW 1534 “ The society is increasing rapidly both in spirit and in numbers; and the rich now begin to come among us, and to sit down with piscine among the honest men with the leathern aprons. 
GARROW 1535  could write to you strange things, but I know not but this may be read by somebody before it comes to your hands, therefore excuse the nonsense. 
GARROW 1536 “ I think there is a struggle between Mrs, 
GARROW 1537 Margarot and you, who: shall bear this with greater fortitude, and that those who suffer the least feel the most. WhenI read your letter to the general mening I could see the tear starting in the eyes of the honest men to whom it was addressed, and the succeeding groans helped'to relieve their swoln hearts. 
GARROW 1538 think you should execute a power of attorney to some person, authorizing him to ‘act for you generally, in case you should be hur ried away. And if you think well of the’writ of error, give me an authority, and I will immediately set about it. 
GARROW 1539 “ Between us, Muir and Palmer have put themselves into the hands of the opposition, who, I fear, will use their case no farther than as an argument to help themselves into administration. 
GARROW 1540 “ Mrs, Martin desires me to say more for her than Ihave room. Were it not that you ete safe enough, and ‘all of us married, I would almost think her in love ; but itis with w conduct more than your person, adieu. 
GARROW 1541 eve me to be, my dear sir, your sincere friend, and fellow-citizen, “ J. Martin. 
GARROW 1542 “Citizen Gay says more than I dare write. You know the frank sincerity of that citizen, and if either prayers or any thing else in his power is wanting it may be depended on. 
GARROW 1543 “ To Citizen Maurice Margarot, Tolbooth, Edinburgh 
GARROW 1558 Here are a great number of printed circular letters. 
GARROW 1559 Mr. Edward Lousun
GARROW 1561 “ Citizens ! The critical moment is artived, and Britons must either assert with zeal and firmness their claims to liberty, or yield without resistance, to the chains that ministerial usurpation is forging for them. Will you co-operate with us in the only peace able measure that now presents itself with any prospect of success? We need not intimate to you, that notwithstanding the unparalleled audacity of a corrupt and overbearing faction, which at present tramples on the rights and Tiberties of the people, our meetings cannot in England be interrupted without the previous adoption of a convention-bill, a measure it is our duty to anticipate, that the ties of union may be more firmly drawn, and the sentiments and views of the different societies throughout the nation be compared, while itis yet in our power, so as to guide and direct the future operations of the friends to freedom. Rouse then to one exertion more; and let us show our consciousness of this importanttruth: ‘If we are to be beaten down with‘threats, prosecutions, and illegal sentences, we‘are unworthy—we are incapable of liberty.’ We must, however, be expeditious: Hessians and Austrians are already among us! and, if we tamely submit, a cloud of these armed barians may shortly be poured. in upon us: 
GARROW 1562 Tet us form then another British Convention ; we have a central situation in our view, which we believe would be most convenient for the whole island; but which we forhear to men tion (intreating your confidence in this particular) till we have the answer of the societies with which we are im correspondence. Let us have your answer then, by the 2Uth at farthest—earlier, if possible, whether you a) 
GARROW 1563 prove of the measure, and how many de gates you can send, with the mumber also, if possible, of your sucieties. We remain yours, In civic affection, the London Corresponding Society. "Tuouas Hagpy, secretary. 
GARROW 1564 “ For the management of this business we have appointed a secret committee ; you will judge how far it is necessary for you to do the same. 
GARROW 1565 xsaid, he believed the following letter to be the prisoner’s handwriting. 
GARROW 1566 (t was read.] 
GARROW 1567 “ London, March 12th, 1794, “ Cifizen Buckle ; I have just time to inform you that I saw our worthy delegate, citizen Margarot, last Friday, on board the Surprize Transport, at Spithead, about five 
GARROW 1568 ‘miles from Portsmouth Harbour. He is in health and high spirits, no ways depressed, although Providence seems to frown ; —he is conscious of having broken no law in this country, but only doing his duty as every ood citizen is bound to do, for promoting the Fappintes of his fellow men, by opposing every measure, and any man, that wantonly violates all laws, human and divine
GARROW 1570 Mr. John Gurnell,—I found these papers at Hardy’s House. " a1 
GARROW 1571 “ Fellow Citizeiis,—The Society in Stratha"ven received your circnlarletter some fime ago, respecting another British Convention, to be held in England; and finding it would be inconvenient for them to send a delegate for themselves alone, the cause being mach suppressed here by prosecutions, which we are subjected to from the petty sheriffs in our neighbourhood, we have united ourselves with the societies in Kilmarnock, Galston, Newmills, and Dorvill; accordingly a meeting of delegates from these societies, and that in Strathaven, was convened on the first current, whcre the measure met with the fullest approbation, and a delegate was elected for the general convention, and a secret committee aj pointed to conduct the business
GARROW 1573 “ Avex. Mitcuect, secretary. “ Strathaven, 9th April, 1794. 
GARROW 1574 “ For the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 1575 “ Direct to Alex. Mitchell, Manufacturer, Strathaven, county of Lanark. 
GARROW 1576 “Mr. T. Hardy, Shoemaker, No. 9, Piccadilly, London. 
GARROW 1577  Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 24th April, 1794. 
GARROW 1578 “ By desire of a number of friends to a radical reform in the constitution here, I make free to trouble you—We live in a place where an aristocrat magistracy endeavours to stop the genial and benign spirit of national liberty from spreading, notwithstanding a very great number are found here that dare assert the natural and: unalienable rights of man, and bear their testimony against the tyrannical encroachments of assumed power on those rights
GARROW 1580 This, which was found in Hardy’s possession, purports to be an answer to the last. 
GARROW 1581 “ 4st May, 1794. 
GARROW 1582 “ Citizen, It is with pleasure the London Corresponding Society hear that a society om a similar plan, and with the same patriotic objects in view, is likely to be established at Newcastle-upon-Tyne. If ever a crisis arrived that required the exertions of the people to stop the torrent of corruption, infamy, and despotism that seems likely to overwhelm them, it is the present. In God’s name, ther, let us use these exertions. We are called upon by every thing that is dear to us, as men and as Christians. The cause of truth and liberty must finally be omnipotent; therefore doubt not that the glorious reign of liberty and equality will ere Jong be established; and modern governments, with every appen of wickedness and corruption, will flee, in time, from their genial influence, as beasts of prey to their dens of rapine and darkness from the rising sun. The London Corresponding Society have beheld with indignation the rapid advances of despotism in Britain, and are ready cordially to unite with every other society in the three kingdoms, who have for their object a full and effectual sg ae tion of the people; they therefore have deputed six of their members to meet six of the members of the Society for Constitutional Information, to form a committee of correspondence and co-operation. This committee meets regularly twice a week, at No. 2, Beaufort Buildings, Strand, where any member delegated by your society will meet with every information required. We inclose you a few of our resolutions entered into at our general meeting, on the 14th of April, which will be sufficiently explanatory of ovr sentiments and views. We heartily unite with you in wishing that the hydra of tyranny and imposition may soon fall under the guillotine of truth and reason. 
GARROW 1583 “ Bristol, 24th April, 1794. 
GARROW 1584 “ Fellow Citizen, You. may be sensible, from our last communication, that, in the infancy of our patriotic efforts, we had many difficulties to overcome, and many strong prejudices to combat. We laid open to you our teal situation; we told you our determination to address the public, and assured you of our unalterable perseverance in the glorious cause of freedom
GARROW 1586 “ Norwich Societies, 29th April, 1794. 
GARROW 1587 “Citizen Hardy, It is with great satisfaction we view the manly conduct of you and gour colleagues, especially when surrounded, as you are, by a domineering aristocracy, who, notwithstanding their great bluster, are but chicken-hearted: witness our Norfolk Quixotes, who, after being completely foiled at the county meeting, were determined to subscribe to support an armed aristocracy. But pray tell it not in the metropolis, that a noble marquis subscribed no more than 200. and another high-pensioned lord but 100.; an alderman ‘and leader, and very fierce for church and king, the enormous sum of 201. these are the men who are ready to spend their lives and fortunes—But enough of such privileged beings. We should be glad to know whether the Friends of the People consent to a convention, and whether they will take an active part. — mm bm we : aPlease to accept ofa few of our bills, We should esteem ita favour that you would send us a few of your late Declarations. ty “ P. S
GARROW 1589 “ Hereford, May 12th, 1794. 
GARROW 1590 “ Sir, I have repeatedly seen your name in the newspapers, as secretary to a certain’ institution called the London -Corresponding Society. But from my inquiries in the coun try, I have not yet been able to acquire a knowledge of the rules of the society, nor the’ 
GARROW 1591 ecise purpose for which it has been estalished. If their design is to increase the knowledge of the community, I really think’ it laudable and seasonable, and should be glad to avail myself of their information. I have therefore troubled you with this letter, requesting some account of the rules of the society, the object they have in view, and the means they pursue to obtain it. Any information of this sort would be extremely gratifying to, sir, your most humble servant, ‘ 
GARROW 1592 “ Joseph PoweLt. 
GARROW 1593 “ Address to Joseph Powell, surveyor; to be left at the Sun Tavern, Hereford. 
GARROW 1594 “ Mr. Hardy, No. 9, Piccadilly, London. 
GARROW 1595 ‘ “ Post paid. Fellow Citizen, In answer to your letter dated the 12th ult. Iam desired to inform’ you, the London Corresponding Society have in view not only the glorious design of increasing the knowledge of the community, bi of redressing their grievances. This Rite hope to do by straining every nerve in union with other societies already established, and establishing, in every part of the kingdom, to procure universal suffrage and annual parliaments, as the only likely means to annihilate the present most abominable system of corruption, and to stop the rapid advances of despotism—a monster whose hideous features" need only be exposed to render it an object of: universal terror and detestation, but whose gaudy trappings have too long dazzled the eyes of our countrymen. 
GARROW 1596 “ To expose vice, to paint virtue in its true colours, to acquaint our fellow citizens with their dearest rights, the rights of mun; and, by a brotherly union, give them an opportunity of demanding those rights, are the ‘ means we use; and we doubt not, but in exertin those means, we are doing our duty to Go and our country ; for, as Pope says, : “ Jove fixt it certain, that whatever day “ Made man a slave, took half his worth away. 
GARROW 1597 “ We invite you, and your fellow citizens, ta join with us in the same glorious cause. From us you may depend on every information and. assistance ; the mode of obtaining which, you, ‘will shortly learn by a circular letter. 
GARROW 1598 “J. Harpy, secrefary. 
GARROW 1599 Herewith you receive a few of the proceedings of our last general meeting. (Indorsed) “ Copy of answer to Hereford. 
GARROW 1600 Inow propose to read a letter from a society at Sheffield, addressed to the prisoner; it does not appear that any part of it 1s in his hand-writing ; it is found in the possession of Thelwall, who, as your lordship recollects, appears to have been in some instances an agent of that London Corresponding Society of which Hardy was aectelaty 
GARROW 1601 Mr. Erskine. The principle upon which the last piece of evidence was admitted was vel distinctly stated by your lordships, that it might be evidence to show a conspiracy so called, yet would not go to affect the prisoner, unless it could be brought home to him. The only remark I make upon this is, how does it appear to be the same Sheffield Society with which this society was in correspondence? Is it written in the same hand-writing? Does it profess to be written by the same person who betore corresponded with the prisoner? Mr. Garrow. We do not state this is the Sheffield society with which they correpanded; I state it to be from a society at Sheffield, with which town they were in correspondence, signed by a person purporting to be a secretary ; but if my friends object to it, we will not trouble them to argue it. 
GARROW 1604 ae you one of his majesty’s messengers
GARROW 1606 Did you seize an: Thelwall 
GARROW 1608 You put your name on those that you seized mt did. 
GARROW 1609 Is this one you found upon Thelwall 
GARROW 1611 “ Sheffield, May 11th, 1794. 
GARROW 1612 “ Friend and Fellow Citizen, The friends of peace and reform in Halifax, having held aseme public meeting in the open aig, on onday, April 2ist, 1794, at which were many friends from Leeds, Wakefield, Huddersfield, Bradford, and the adjacent neighbourhood, the friends of freedom after the meeting agreed to hold a general meeting of delegates at Bristol, in order to consider on the measures to be adopted by them, preparatory toa general convention, after which our worthy friend, citizen , of Halifax, being ordered to Sheffield, to get the procachings of the meeting printed, and copsult papers at the house of w that were on his perwith us upon the subject, they were advised by us to defer at present the meeting of delegates until further information from you om that subject; I was, therefore, ordered at our last committee meeting to write to fous re-questing the favour of as early intelligence as possible on that important business. We are not in the least intimidated in Sheffield, 1 as we can call and hold a public meeting whenever circumstances render the same necessary: besides in the house where I reside, we have a commodious room, where the society can peaceably meet in rotation
GARROW 1614 Was this paper found in the possession of Mr. Skirving
GARROW 1616 “ The delegation from Glasgow moves, that the convention take into their considerations the nature and extent of a resolution adopted by their constituents, and by most of the othersocieties in Scotland, and afterwards ratified and approved of at the general convention held at Edinburgh, in December, 1792; the import of which was, that if any member of their society, associated for the purpose of obtaining a parligmentary reform, while in the legal prosecution of that object be oppressed or pereecuves by the arm of power, they should not only meet with the assistance of the society to which theybut also with the united efforts of al) their bree thren in Scotland. 
GARROW 1617 “ Since the above period, however, we are sorry to say, several of our members have been persecuted, and that in a most wanton manner; and the above resolution (which if duly putin force, would, we humbly apprehend, have the happy effect of emboldeni those who haye already come forward, and ; encouraging others who have not yet taken ; any active part to unite their efforts in the general cause) has never yet been attended to, 
GARROW 1618 “ We therefore humbly move, that the cone vention take into consideration the above pare ticulars, and consider what measures may be most conducive towards the performance of the obligation we lye under, in consequence of that resolution, and thereby show to the world, that we are not unmindful of those who have already suffered, or may in future s 4in their country’s cause
GARROW 1620 “ Edinburgh October Soth, 1793. 
GARROW 1621 Where did you find this peper 
GARROW 1623 Sir, Your letter of the 14th instant addressed to the chairman of the Society for Jonstitytional Information, was read at the last meeting, and —I have tbe pleasure to send their resolutian on the same. I have the ji to be, sir, your gost obedient servant, “ ihe Apans, Secretary to tl “ Society for Constitutional Information. Tooks Court, June 19, 1792." 
GARROW 1624 a Ata meeting held Friday, June 15th, 1792. Resolved, That the secretary be desized to inform the secretary of the London Corresponding Society, that Lhis society receive their proposal with pleasure, and are willing to admit such six of the members whom they shall nominate, to be associated members of this society. 
GARROW 1625 “ By direction of the society you will seceive 200 printed Resolves on the late pruclamation. 
GARROW 1626 “ London Constitutional Society. 
GARROW 1627 Addressed “ Mr. Hardy. 
GARROW 1628 200 copies of their Resolutions on the proclamer cg see wena waste And acquainting us wou! mit six of our meyers 8 7 
GARROW 1629 This seems the beginning of the connexion of the two societies: 
GARROW 1630 “ Sir; In the name of the London Corresponding Society, I have to return thanks to the Society for Constitutional Information, for their present of 2U0 copies of their Resolutions, respecting the ‘king’s proclamation; as also for the 200 copies of Mr. Paine’s Letter, &c. Likewise Mr. Paine’s Letter to Mr. secretary Dundas; by care, in the distribution of them, those 600 papers shall be seen by as many thousand persons. 
GARROW 1631 “We find ourselves highly favoured by your readiness, to admit six of our members among you. I am directed to forward to you the following six names, as the persons chosen by our society for that honourable purpose; our sense of the favour so conferred, will be best expressed by their close attendance at your instructive meetings, and ‘constant endeavours to forward the so beneficial and so much wanted reform of parliamentary representation. I am, sir, with great respect, your very humble servant, 
GARROW 1632 “ Thomas Happy, secretary. “July 6th, 1792. “ Mr. D. Adams. 
GARROW 1633 he six persons chosen were Mr. Hardy, Mr. Margarot, Mr. Richter, Mr. Littlejohn, Mr. Grant, and Mr. Gow. 
GARROW 1702 I think I am entitled, at present, to read this as evidence to go to the jury ; I know it is open to the other side to show that this is not the Rights of Man reeognized by this society
GARROW 1720 I shall now produce a copy of one of the cheap editions of Paine’s Rights of Man, and Mr. Paine’s Letter to the People of France, both found in possession of the prisoner. 
GARROW 1721 Is that one of the papers you found at the prisoner’s house 
GARROW 1723 Did you find the other there
GARROW 1727 We do not interrupt the course of proceedings by reading the es out of Paine’s book ; at present we will go on with other evidence. A 
GARROW 1729 Then we will read Mr. Paine’s Letter to the people of France. 
GARROW 1730 Letter of Thomas Paine, to the People of France. Published and distributed gratis by the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 1731 “ Paris, September 25. (First Year of the Republic.) 
GARROW 1732 “ Fellow Citizens; I receive, with affectionate Eratitade, the honour which the late National Assembly has conferred upon me, by adopting me a citizen of France; and the ditional honour of being elected by my fellow-citizens a member of the National Convention. Happily impressed, as I am, by those testimonies of respect shown towards me as an individual, I feel my felicity increased by seeing the barrier broken down that divided patriotism by spots of earth, and limited citizenship to the soil, like vegetation. 
GARROW 1733 “Had those honours been conferred in an hour of national tranquillity, they would have afforded no other means of showing my affection, than to have accepted and enjoyed them ; but they come accompanied with circumstances that give me the honourable portunity of commencing my citizenship in the stormy hour of difficulties. I come not to enjoy repose. Convinced that the cause of France is the cause of all mankind, and that as liberty cannot be purchased by a wish, I gladly share with you the dangers and honours necessary to success. 
GARROW 1734 “1 am well aware that the moment of any inp change, such as that accomplished on the 10th of August, is unavoidably the moment of terror and confusion, The mind, highly agitated by hope, suspicion, and apprehension, continues without rest till the change be accomplished. But let us now look calmly and confidently forward, and success is certain. It is no longer the paltr cause of kings, or of this, or of that individual, that calls France and her armies into action. It is the great cause of aru. Itis the establishment of a new era, that shall blot despotism from the earth, and fix, on the lasting principles of peace and citizenship, the great republic of man. 
GARROW 1735 t:has been my fate to have borne a share in the commencement and complete establishment of one revolution (I meafi the revolution of America). The success and events of that revolution are encouraging to us. The ey. and ianpinesy: sat have since jowed to that country, have amply rewarded her for all the hardships she endured, and for all the dangers she encountered. 
GARROW 1736 “ The principles on which that revolution began, -have extended themselves to Europe ; and an over-ruling Providence is repesereing the Old World by the principles of the New. The gah ere Som a Asse other pats of , did not admit of her carrying those principles beyond her own situation. It 1s to the peculisr honour of France, that she now raixes the seumiard of liberty for all nations; and in fighting hes own battles, contends for the rights of all mankind. 
GARROW 1737 he same spirit of fortitude that insured success to America, will insure it to France, for it is impossible to conquer a nation determined to be free! The military circumstances that now unite themselves to France, are suc! as the despots of the earth know nothing of, and can’ form no caleulation upon know not what it is to fight: against a nation, They have only been accustomed to make war’ upon each other, and they know from systeny and practice, how to calcilate the probable success of despot against despot; and here’ their knowledge and their experience ends. 
GARROW 1738 “ But in a contest like the present, a new and boundless variet yer circumstances arises, that deranges all such customary calculations. When: a whole nation acts as an army, the despot knows not the extent of the power against which he contends. New armies rise’ against him with the necessity of the moment. It is then that the difficulties of an-invading enemy multiply, as in the former case they diminished ; and he finds them at their height when he expected them to end. 
GARROW 1739 he only war that has any mouarity oF circumstances with the present, is the late revolution-war in America. Qa her part, as it now is in France, it was a war of the whole nation
GARROW 1741 “ Were it now to be proposed to the Austrians and Prussians to escort them into the middle of France, and there leave them to make the most of such a situation, they would see too much into the danger of it to accept the offer, and the same dangers would attend them could they arrive there by any other means. Where then is the military policy of their attempting to obtain by force, that which they would refuse by choice? But to reason with despots is throwing reason away. The best of arguments is a vigurous preparation. 
GARROW 1742 “Man is ever a stranger to the ways by which Providence regulates the order of things. The interference of foreign despots may serve to introduce into their own enslaved countries the principles they come to oppose, Liberty and equality are blessings too great to be the inheritance of Frauce alone. It is honour to her to be their first champion ; and she may now say to her enemies, with a mighty voice, ‘O! ye Austrians, ye Prus‘slans! ye who now turn your bayonets “against us; it is for all Europe; it is tor alt mankind, and not for France alone, that sho “raises the standard of Liberty and Equality. 
GARROW 1743 he public cause has hitherto suffered from the contradictions contained in the constitution of the former Constituent Assembly. Those contradictions have served to divide the opinions of individuals at home, and to obscure the great principles of the revolution in other countries. But when those contradictions shall be removed, and the constitution be made conformable to the declaration of rights; when the bagatelles of monarghy, royalty, regency, and hereditary succession, shall be exposed, with all their absurdities, a new ray of light will be thrown over the world, and the revolution will derive new strength by being universally understood. The scene that now opens itself to France extends far beyond the houndaries of her own dominions. Every nation is becoming her colleague, and every court is become her enemy. It is now the cause of all nations against the cause of all courts. The terror that despotism felt, clandestinely begot a confederation of despots; and their attack upon France was produced by their fears at home. 
GARROW 1744 “ In entering on this great scene, greater than apy nation has yet been called to act in, let us say to the agitated mind, be calm. Let us punish by instructing, rather than by revenge. Jet us begin the new era by a greatness of friendship, and hail the approach of union and success. Your fellow citizen, homas Parner. 
GARROW 1745 What are you by business 
GARROW 1747 Were you acquainted with Mr. Thomas Paine 
GARROW 1749 Have you at any time print any book for him
GARROW 1751 What wasit
GARROW 1753 Did you print one or two parts of that work 
GARROW 1755 Was it at the earlier part of the second part as you call it, or the latter part 
GARROW 1757 You did not finish it 
GARROW 1759 Look at these two books, and tell me whether you believe these to be copies printed by you 
GARROW 1761 How far did you proceed in printing the second part 
GARROW 1763 After the book was completed, did you ever converse with Mr. Paine about it
GARROW 1765 “ Can then Mr. Burke produce the English constitution? 1f he cannot, wo may fairly conclude, that though it has been so muc! talked about, no such thing as a constitution exists, or ever did exist, and consequently that the people have yet a constitution to form. 
GARROW 1766 (Page 59, Bvo. and page 25, 12mo. editions.)—“ A government on the principles on which constitutional governments arising out of society are established, cannot have the right of altering itself. If it had, it would be arbitrary. It might make itself what it pleased; and wherever such a right is set up, it shows there is no constitution. The act by which the English parliament empowered itself to sit seven years, shows there is no constitution in England. It might, by the same self-authority, have sat any greater number of years, or for life. he Bill which the present Mr. Pitt brought into parliament some years ago, to reform parliament, was on the same erroneous principle. The right of reform is in the nation in its original character, and the constitutional method would be by a general convention elected for the purse. There is, moreover, a paradox in the idea of vitiated bodies reforming themselves. 
GARROW 1767 (Page 63, 8vo. and 27, 12mo. editions.)— “ Much is to be learned from the French constitution. Conquest and tyranny transplanted themselves with William the Conqueror from Normandy into England, and the country is yet disfigured with the marks, May then the example of all France contribute to regenerate the freedom which a province of it dee stroyed !" 
GARROW 1768 (Page 161, 8vo. and page 74, 12mo. editions.}—“ The two modes of government which prevail in the world, are, first, government by election and representation : secondly, poreenmnent by hereditary succession. The former is generally known by the name of republic; the latter by that of monarchy and aristocracy. 
GARROW 1769 hose two distinct and opposite forms, erect themselves on the two distinct and posite bases of reason and ignorance
GARROW 1771 (Page 165, 8vo. and page 76, 12mo. editions.)—“ From the revolutions of America and France, and the symptoms that have appeared in other countries, it is evident that the opinion of the world is changed with respect to systems of government, and that revolutions are not within the compass of political calculations. The progress of time and circumstances, which men assign to the accomplishment of great changes, is too mechanical to measure the force of the mind, and the rapidity of reflection, by which revolutions are generated : all the old governments have received a shock from those that already appear, and which were once more improbable, and are a greater subject of wonder, than a general revolution in Europe would be now. 
GARROW 1772 “ When we survey the wretched condition of man under the monarchical and hereditary systems of government, dragged from his home by one power, or driven by another, and impoverished by taxes more than by enemies, it becomes evident that those systems are bad, and that a general revolution in the principle and construction of governments is necessary. 
GARROW 1773 “ What is government more than the management of the affairs of a nation? It is not, and from its nature cannot be, the property of any particular man or family, but of the whole community, at whose expense it is supported ; and though by force or contrivance it has been usurped into an inheritance, the usurpation cannot alter the right of things. Sovereignty, as a matter of right, appertains to the nation only, and not to any individual ; and a nation has at all times an inherent indefeasible right to abolish any form of governMent it finds inconvenient, and establish such as accords with its interest, disposition, and happiness. The romantic and barbarous distinction of mer into kings and subjects, though it may suit the condition of courtiers, cannot that of citizens ; and is exploded by the principle upon which governments are now founded. Every citizen is a member of the sovereignty, and, as such, can acknowledge no personal subjection ; and his obedience can be only to the laws. 
GARROW 1774 “ When men think of what government is, they must necessarily suppose it to possess a knowledge of all the objects and matters upon which its authority is to be exercised. In this view of government, the republican system, as established by America and France, operates to embrace the whole of a nation; and the knowledge necessary to the interest of all the parts, is to be found in the centre, which the parts by representation form: but the old governments are on a construction that excludes knowledge as well as happiness; government by monks, who know nothing of the world beyond the walls ofa convent, is as consistent as government by kings. 
GARROW 1775 “What were formerly called revolutions, were little more than a change of persons, or an alteration of local circumstances. They rose and fell like things of course, and had nothing in their existence or their fate that could influence beyond the spot that produced them. But what we now see in the world, from the revolutions of America and France, is a renovation of the natural order of things, a system of principles as universal as truth and the existence of man, and combinin, moral with political happiness and nation: prosperity. 
GARROW 1776 1, Men are born and always continue free, and equal in respect of their rights. Civil distinctions, therefore, can be founded only on public utility. 
GARROW 1777 “ 2. The end of all political associations is the preservation of the natural and imprescriptible rights of man ; and these rights are liberty, property, security, and resistance of oppression. 
GARROW 1778 “3. The nation is essentially the source of all sovereignty ; nor can any INDIVIDUAL, Or ANY BODY OF MEN, be entitled to any authority which is not expressly derived from it. , 
GARROW 1779 (Page 171, 8vo. and page 78, 12mo. editions. —“ As it is not difficult to perceive; from the enlightened state of mankind, that hereditary governments are verging to their decline, and that revolutions on the broad basis of national sovereignty, and government by representation, are making their way in Europe, it would be an act of wisdom to anti cipate their approach, and produce revolutions by reason and accommodation, rather than commit them to the issue of convulsions. 
GARROW 1780 “ From what we now sce, nothing of reform in the political world ought to be held improbable. It is an age of revolutions, in which every thing may be looked for. The intrigue of courts, by which the system of war is kept up, may provoke a contederation of nations to abolish it: and an European congress, to patronize the progress of free government, and promote the civilization of nations with each other, is an event nearer in probability, than once were the revolutions and alliance of France and America. 
GARROW 1781 [The following passages were read from the Second Part of the “ Rights of Man.} 
GARROW 1782 (Page 21, 8vo. edition.)—“ All hereditary vernment is, in its nature, tyranny
GARROW 1784 (Page 27, 8vo. edition.}—“ How irrational then isthe hereditarysystem, which establishes channels of power, in company with which wisdom refuses to flow
GARROW 1786 (Page 47, 8vo. edition
GARROW 1788 “ The convention went deeply into all the subjects; and having, after a variety of debate ain investigation, agreed among themselves upon the several parts of a federal constitution, the next question was, the manner of giving it authority and practice. For this purpose they did not, like a cabal of courtiers, send for a Dutch stadtholder, or a German elector ; but they referred the whole matter to the sense and interest of the country. 
GARROW 1789 “ They first directed, that the proposed constitution should be published. Secondly, that each state shoul, elect a convention, expressly for the purpose of taking it into consideration, and of ratifying or rejecting it ; and that as soon as the approbation and ratification of any nine states should be given, that those states should proceed to the election of their proportion of members to the new federal government, and that the operation of it should then begin, and the former federal government cease. 
GARROW 1790 (Page 52, 8vo. edition.“ The history of the Edwards and the Henries, and up to the commencement of the Stuarts, exhibits as many instances of tyranny as could be acted within the limits to which the nation had restricted it. The Stuarts endeavourcd to 
GARROW 1791 8 those limits, and their fate is well known. In all those instances, weseenothing of a constitution, but only of restrictions, or assumed power. 
GARROW 1792 “After this another William, descended from the same stock, and claiming from the same origin, gained possession ; and, of the two evils, James and William, the nation preferred what it thought the least; since, from circumstances, it must take one. The act, called the Bill of Rights, comes here into view, What is it but a bargain, which the parts of the government made with each other, to divide powers, profits, and privileges: you shall have 30 much, and I will have the rest; and, with respect to the nation, it suid, for your share, YOU shall have the right of petitioning. This being the case, the Bill of Rights is, more properly, a bill of wrongs, and of insult. As to whatis called the convention parliament, it was a thing that made itself, and then made the authority by which it acted. A few persons got together, and called themselves by that name. Several of them had never been elected, and none of them for the purpose. 
GARROW 1793 “From the time of William a species of vernment arose, issuing out of this coalition ill of Rights ; and more so, since the corruption introduced at the Hanover succession, by the agency of Walpole; that can be described by no other name than a despotic legislation. Though the parts may embarrass each other, the sinle has no bounds; and the only right it acknowledges, out of itself, is the right of petitioning. Where then is the constitution, either that gives, or that restrains power ? “Itis not because a part of the government is elective, that makes it less a despotism, if the persons so elected possess afterward, as a parliament, unlimited powers. Election, in this case, becomes separated from representation, and the candidates are candidates for despotism. 
GARROW 1794 “ I cannot believe that any nation, reasoning on its own rights, would have thought of calling those things a constitution, if the cry of constitution had not been sct up by the government. 
GARROW 1795 (Page 63, 8vo. edition—a note.)—“ With respect to the two houses of which the English parliament is composed, they appear to be effectually influenced into one; and, as a legislature, to have no temper of its own. The minister, whoever he at any time may be, touches it as with an opium wand, and it sleeps obedience. hs 
GARROW 1796 “ But if we look at the distinct abilities of the two houses, the difference will appear so great, as to shew the inconsistency of placing power where there can be no certainty of the judgment to use it. Wretched as the state of Tepresentation is in England, it is manhood compared with what is called the House of Lords ; and so little is this nick-named house regarded, that the people scarcely inquire, at any time, what it is doing. It appears also to be most under influence, and the furthest removed from the general interest of the nation. In the debate on engaging in the Russian and Turkish war, the majority in the House of Peers, in favour of it, was upwards of ninety; when in the other house, which is more than double its numbers, .the majority was sixty-three. 
GARROW 1797 (Page 65, 8vo. edition.) —“ But in whatever manner the separate parts of a constitution may be arranged, there is one general principle that distinguishes freedom from slavery, which is, that all hereditary government over a people is to them a species of fslavery, and representative government is freedom,’, 
GARROW 1798 (Page 107, 8vo. edition.)— Having thus glanced at some of the defects of the two houses of parliament, I proceed to what is called the crown, upon which I shall be very concise, 
GARROW 1799 “ It signifies a nominal office of a million sterling a year, the business of which consists in receiving the money
GARROW 1843 I had dismissed this book, but the reading of the preface has reminded me of some passages I had overlooked. 
GARROW 1844 (Page 161, 8vo. edition.)—“ The fraud bypocrisy, and imposition of governments are now beginning to be too well understood to promise them any long career. The farce of monarchy and aristocracy, in all countries is following that of chivalry, and Mr. Burke is dressing for the funeral. Let it then quietly to the tomb of all other follies and the mourners be comforted. 
GARROW 1845 he time is not very distant when England will laugh at itself for sending to Holland Hanover, Zell, or Brunswick for men, at the expense ofa million a year, who understood neither her laws, her language, nor her interest, and whose capacities would scarcely have fitted them for the office of a parish constable. If government could be trusted to such hands, it must be some easy and simple thing indeed, and materials fit for all the purposes may be found in every town and Sillege in England. 
GARROW 1846 (Page 161, 8vo. edition.)—“ Within the space of a few years we have seen two revolutions, those of Americg and France. In the former, the contest was long, and the conflict severe; in the latter, the nation acted with sucha consolidated impulse, that having no foreign enemy to contend with, the revolution was complete in power the moment it appeared. From both those instances it is evident, that the greatest forces that can be brought into the feld of revolutions, are reason and common interest. Where these can have the opportunity of acting, opposition dies with fear, or crumbles away by conviction. It is a great standing which they have now universally obtained ; and we may hereafter hope to see revolutions, or changes in governments produced with the same quiet operation by which any measure, determinable by reason and discussion, is accomplished. 
GARROW 1847 “When anation changes its opinion and habits of thinking, it is no longer to be a verned as before; but it would not only wrong, but bad policy, to attempt by force what ought to be accomplished by reason. Rebellion consists in forcibl opposing the general will of a nation whether by a party orbyagovernment. There ought, therefore, to be in every nation a method of occasionally ascertaining the state of public opinion with t to government. On this point the old government of France was superior to the present government of England, because, on exinary occasions, recourse could be had to what was then called the States-general. Bat in England “there are no such occasional bodies; and as to those who are now called representatives, a great part of them are mere machines of the court, placemen, and depen
GARROW 1848 (Page 170, 8vo. edition—a note.)—“ I know it is the opinion of many of the most enlightened characters in France, (there always will be those who see farther into events than others) not only among the’ general mass of citizens but of many of the principal members of the former National Assembly, that the monarchical plan will not continue many years in that country. They have found out, that as wisdom cannot be made hereditary, powet ought not; and that, for a man to merit a million sterling a year from a nation, he ought to have a mind capable of comprehending from an atom to a universe; which, ifhehad, he would be above receiving the pay. But they wished not to appear to lead the nation faster than its own reason and interest dictated. In all the conversations where Ihave been present upon this subject, the idea always was, that when such a time, from the general opinion of the nation, shall arrive, that the honourable and liberal method would be, to make a handsome present, in fee simple, to the person, whocver he may be, that shall then be in the monarchical office, and forhim to retire to the enjoyment of private lite, possessing his share of general rights and privileges, and to be no more accountable to the public for his time and his conduct than any other citizen. 
GARROW 1849 I shall now return to the Proceedings of the Constitutional Society ; read an entry at a meeting of the 5th of October, 1792. 
GARROW 1850 “ Ata meeting of the society held at the Crown and A nchor-tavern, Strand, on Friday, October 5th, 1792. 
GARROW 1851 “Mr. J. F. Tuffin in the chair. 
GARROW 1852 “Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Sharpe, Mr. Sturch, Dr. Maxwell, Mr. Bonny, Mr. John Martin, Mc Symonds, Mr. Joyce, Mr. Chatfield, Mr. Walford, Mr. Balmanno, Mr. Walsh, Dr. Edwards, Mr. J. Adams, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Sinclair. 
GARROW 1853 “Ordered, That the letter from the London Corresponding Society, entered on the minutes ofthe last meeting, together with the resolution of the society thereon, be published in the pers. wa Reed the following letter from Mr. Joel Barlow, to the Society for Constitutional Information, London ; 
GARROW 1854 “Gentlemen, I have just published a small treatise, in a letter to the National Convention of France, on the defects of the constitution of 1791, and the extent of the amendments which ought to be applied. As the true pouerce oF government are the same in all countries, being founded on the Rights of Man, which are universal and imprescriptible, I conceive the subject of this treatise cannot be foreign to the great object of your association, of which you have done me the favour to make me an honorary member; I, therefore, present a copy of it to you, with the same confidence that Ihave done te the National Convention, a confidence arising froma full conviction that the work is founded in truth and reason, although these principles seem not so immediately reducible to practice in the government of this country asin that of France, yet their examination can never be unseasonable. 
GARROW 1855 “ A great revolution in the management of the affairs of nations, is, doubtless, soon to be expected through all Europe; and, in the progress of mankind towards this attainment, it Is greatly to bedesired that the convictions to be squires from rational discussion, should precede and preclude those which must result from physical exertion. 
GARROW 1856 “ Such is certainly the ardent wish of your friend and adopted brother. 
GARROW 1857 (Signed) “ Jor, Bartow. “ London, October 4, 1792. 
GARROW 1858 “Resolved, That the said letter be taken into consideration at the next meeting. 
GARROW 1859 We will read the thanks voted to Mr. Barlow for this letter at the next meeting of the society, which was on the 12th of October, 
GARROW 1860 “ Ata meeting of the society held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, 12th October, 1792, 
GARROW 1861 “ PRESENT “ Mr. Bush in the chair: 
GARROW 1862 “Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Bonney, Mr. W. Sharpe, Mr. Symonds, Mr. J. Martin, Mr. Moore, Mr. Merry, Mr. Williams, Mra Sturch, Mr. Banks, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. G. Williams, Mr. Bailey, Mr. Tuffin, Mr. Satchell, Mr. Watts, Mr. Hutt, Mr. Hull, Mr. Joyce, Mr. Littlejohn, Mr. Balmanno, Mr. Aspinal, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Walford, Mr. Richter, Dr. Maxwell, Mr. M. Pearson. 
GARROW 1863 “ Read Mr. Joel Barlow's letter to the National Convention of France, on the defects in the constitution of 1791, and the extent of the amendments which ought to be applied. 
GARROW 1864 “ Resolved, That Mr. Sturch be requested to draw up an answer to the letter of Mr. Barlow read at the last meeting, expressing how much pride this society feel at having elected him an honorary member. 
GARROW 1865 I believe you are a bookseller in St. Paul's Church Yard 
GARROW 1867 And a publisher
GARROW 1869 Be so good as look at that pamphlet which you have in your hand, and tell me whether that is of your publishing
GARROW 1871 Do you know the person who appears to be the author, Joel Barlow 
GARROW 1873 It appears to be published by you, does it not
GARROW 1875 I am not asking you at present whether these sheets of paper came out of your shop, have the goodness to attend to the question, you know Mr. Barlow you say 
GARROW 1877 Did you publish for him at any time a work with the title of that pamphlet
GARROW 1879 Had you communication with him upon the subject of that publication 
GARROW 1881 Did you from him receive the manuscript
GARROW 1883 Have you any doubt of it
GARROW 1885 Who paid you for it
GARROW 1887 Be so good as look at it, and tell me whether you have any doubt that it was published by you for Joel Barlow 
GARROW 1889 Have you any doubt about it
GARROW 1891 You publish a great many books, and you do not always recollect the contents, did it happen to you to publish the Rights of Man
GARROW 1893 Did you sell any 
GARROW 1895 How many copies, I do not ask you to within a thousand, but about how many do you think you sold
GARROW 1897 Did you sell many or few 
GARROW 1899 Did you sell some dozens 
GARROW 1902 Do you know of your own knowledge whether the sale of the book called the Rights of Man was extensive or not? I do not ask you whether you sold one yourself. —Yes, I think I can say that the sale was large. Do you recollect receiving any number of a publication called a Letter to Mr. Dundas from Mr. Paine
GARROW 1904 Where from
GARROW 1906 Do not you know of your own knowledge by whose order they were sent, or from whom they came
GARROW 1908 You said the sale of Mr. Barlow’s Letter aid for the expense—what quantity might e sold
GARROW 1910 really do not know. 
GARROW 1911 [Extracts read from—“ A Letter to the National Convention of France, on the Defects of the Constitution of 1791, and the extent of the amendments which ought to be applied, by Joel Barlow, esq. author of Advice to Privileged Orders."} 
GARROW 1912 (From page 1, to the middle of page 12.)— “ gentlemen the time is at last arrived when the people of France, by resorting to their own proper dignity, feel themselves at liberty to exercise their unembarrassed reason, in establishing an equal government. The present crisis in your affairs, marked by the assembling of a National Convention, bears nearly the same relation to the last four years of your history, as your whole revolution bears to the great accumulated mass of modern improvement; compared, therefore, with all that is past, it is perhaps the most interesting portion of the most important period that Europe has hitherto seen. 
GARROW 1913 “Under this impression, and with the deepest sense of the magnitude of the subject which engages your attention, I take a liberty which no “i ht motives could warrant ina stranger, the liberty of offering a few observations on the business that lies before you. Could I suppose, however, that any apology were necessary for this intrusion, I should not rely upon the one here mentioned, but my intentions require no apology; I demand to be heard, as aright. Your cause is that of human nature at large ; you are the representatives of mankind; and though I am not literally one of your constituents, yet I must be bound by your decrees. My pines will be seriously affected by your deliberations; and in them I have an interest, which. nothing can destroy. I not only consider all mankind as forming but one great family, and therefore hound by a natural sympathy to regard each other's peptone as making part of their own; but I contemplate the French nation at this moment as standing in the place of the whole, you have stepped forward with a gigantic stride to an enterprise which involves the interests of every surrounding nation; and what you began as justice to yourselves, you are called upon ta finish as a duty to the human race. 
GARROW 1914  believe no man cherishes s greater veneration than I have uniformly done, for. 
GARROW 1915 the Nationaf Assembly who framed that constitution, which I now presume your constituents expect you to revise. Perhaps the merits of that body of men will never be properly apprectated. The greatest part of their exertions were necessarily spent on objects which cannot be deScribed; and which from their nature can meake no figure in history. The enormous weight of abuses they had to overturn, the quantity of pee with which their fune tions called them to contend, as well in their own minds as in those of all the European world, the open opposition of interests, the secret weapons of corruption, and the unbridied fury of despairing faction—these are subjects bik escape our common observation, when we contemplate the labours of that assembly. But the legacy they have left to their country in their deliberative capacity will remain a lasting monument to their praise; and though while searching out the defective parts of their work, without losing sight of the difficulties under which it was formed, we may find more occasion to admire its wisdom, than to murmur at its faults; yet this consideration ought not to deter us from the attempt. 
GARROW 1916 he great leading principle, on which their constitution was meant to be founded, is the equality of rights. This principle bein; laid down withsuch clearness, and asserted wit so much dignity in the beginning of the code, it is strange that men of clear understandings should fail to be charmed with the beauty of the system which nature must have taught them to build on that foundation. It shows a disposition to counteract the analogy of nature, to see them at one moment impressing this indelible principle on our minds and with the next breath declaring, that France shall remain a monarchy, that it shall have a king, hereditary, inviolable, clothed with all the executive, and much of the legislative ywer, commander in chief of all the national ree by land and sea, having the initiative of war, and the power of concluding peace, and above all, to hear them declare that, The nation will provide for the splendour of the throne,’ granting in their legislative capacity to that throne more than a million sterling a year, from the national purse, besides the rents of estates which are said to amount to half as much more. 
GARROW 1917 “ We must be astonished at the paradoxical Organization of the minds of men who could see no discordance in these ideas, they begin with the open simplicity of a rational republic, and immediately plunge into all the labyrinths of royalty; and 4 great part of the constitutional code is a practical attempt to reconcile these two discordant theories It is a perpetual conflict between principle and precedent, between the manly truths of nature, which we all must feel, and the learned subtilties of Statesmen, about which we have been taught fo reason. 
GARROW 1918 “ In reviewing the history of lumen opimions, it is an unpleasant consideration to remark how slow the mind has alwavs beem in seizing the most’ interesting truths; although, when discovered, they appear to have been the most obvious. where verified with more circumstances of regret, than in the progress of vour ideas im 
GARROW 1919 France relative to the inutility of the kinglyoffice. It was not enough that you too your first stand upon the high ground of natural right; where, enlightened hy the sus of reason, you might have seen the clouds of prejudice roll far beneath your feet, it was not enough: that you began by considering royalty, with its well known scourges as being the cause of all your evils, that the kings of modern Europe are the authors of war and misery, that their mutual intercourse is s commerce of human slaughter—that public debts and private oppressions, with ‘all the degrading vices that tarnish the face of nature, had their origin in that species of government which offers a premium for wickedness, and teaches the few to trample on the many; it was not enough that you saw the means ofa regeneration of mankind in the system of equal rights, and that in a wealthy and powerful nation you possessed the advantage of reducing that system to immediate practice asan example to the world, and a consolation to human nature. All these arguments, with a variety of others, which your republican orators placed in the strongest point oflight, were insufficient to raise the public mind to a proper view of the subject. 
GARROW 1920 “It seems that some of your own philosophers had previously taught, that royalty was Necessary to a great nation. Montesquieu, among his whimsieal maxims about laws and government, had informed the world thata i limited monarchy was the best possible system, 'and that a democracy could never flourish ; but in a small tract of country. How many of your legislators believed in this doctrine ; how many acted from temporising motives, wishing to banish royalty by slow degrees; and how many were led by principles less pardonable than either, it is impossible to determine. Certain it is, that republican ideas gained no ground upon the monarchical in your constituting assembly, during the last 8ix months of their deliberations. It is like-wise certain, that the majority of thatassembly took much pains to prevent the people from discovering the cheat of royalty, and to continue their ancient veneration, at least for awhile, in favour of certain principles in gos vernment, which reason could not approve, 
GARROW 1921 “It is remarkable, that all the perfidy of our king, at the time of his flight, should ave had so little effect in opening the eyes of so enlightened a people as the French, His flight, and the insulting declaration which he left behind him, were sufficient not onl: to give the lie to the fiction, with whic! common sense has always been put to the 
GARROW 1922 This renark isnoblush, and t6 which your assembly had ettempted to give a sanction, That Kingscan do no wrong; but they were sufficient to show, at least to all who would open their eyes, that the business of government required no such officer. There is no period, during your revolution, if there is any to be found in the history of France, when business went on with morg alacrity and good order, than during the suspension of the reyal functions, in the interval, from the time that the king was brought back to the capital, m June, tll the Completion of the constitution in September. Every: thing went right in the kingdom, except within the walls of the assembly. A majority of that body was determined to make an riment. of a limited monarchy. The e ment has been made. Its duration has, indeed, been short, being less than eleven months; but, although in some respects it has been almostas fatal to the cause of liberty as any system could have been within the time, yet in other respects, it has done more good t sophers of the age could have done in a much longer time: it has taught them a new doctrine, which no experience can shake, and which reason must confirm, That Kings can do no good. 
GARROW 1923 (oops 14 and part of 15)
GARROW 1925 (Page 22 to 26)
GARROW 1927 “ You will permit me to hint at some of the great outlines of what may be expected from you under the peculiar advantages with which, you meet to form a glorious republic. Ab though many of my ideas may be perfectly superfluous, Sane the same as will occur to every member of your body, yet it is possible that some of them may strike the mind in a new point of Jight, and lead to reflections which would not rise from any other quarter. Should this be the casein the sinallest degree, it ought to be considered, both by you and me, as an ample reward for our pains in writing and in reading this letter. 
GARROW 1928 “ On considering the subjectof government, when the mind is once set loose from the shackles of royalty, it finds itself in a new world: it rises toa more extensive view of every circumstance of the social state. Human nature assumes a new and more elevated shape, and displays many moral features, which, from having been always disguised, were not known to exist. In this case, it is a long time before we acquire a habit of traeing effects to their proper causes, and of applying the easy and simple remedy to those vices of our nature which society requires us to restrain. This, I apprehend, is the source of by far the greatest difficulties with which you have to contend. We are so much used, in government, to the most complicated systems, as being necessary to support those imPositions, erat oUt which it has been supposed impossible for men to be governed, that it is an unusual task to conceive of the simplicity to which the business of government may be reduced, and to which it must be reduced, if we would have it answer the purpose of promoting happiness. 
GARROW 1929 “ After presnling royalty, with all its appendages, I suppose it will not be thought necessary in France to support any other errors and superstitions of a similar complexion ; but that undisguised reason, in all things, will be preferred to the cloak of imposition. Should this be the case, you will conceive it no loner necessary to maintain a national church. 
GARROW 1930 "his establishment is so manifestly an imposition upon the judgment of mankind, that the sopiiuting assembly must have considered it in that light. It is one of those monarchical ideas, which pay -us the wretched compliment of supposing, that we are not capable of being perenne by our own reason. To suppose that the people of France are to learn the mode of worshipping ‘God from the decrees of the council of Trent, is certainly as absurd as it would ‘be to appeal to such a council, to learn how to breathe, or to open their eyes. Neither is it true, as is argued by the advocates of this part of your constitution, that the preference there given to one mode of worship, by the payment of the Catholic priests from the national purse, to the exclusion of others, was ‘founded on the idea of the property supposed to ‘have been possessed by that church, and which, by the assembly, was declared to be thenceforward the property of the nation. 
GARROW 1931 he church, in this sense of the word, signifies nothing but a mode of worship ; and to prove that a mode can he a proprietor of lands, requires a subtility of logic that I shall not attempt torefute. The fact is, the church, considered as an hierarchy, was always necessary to the support of royalty; and your assembly, with great consistency of design, wishing to preserve something of the old-fabric, preserved something of this necessar prop. But as the fabric is now overturned, the prop may be safely taken away. I am confident that monarchy and hierarchy will be buried in the same grave, and that in Trance they will not survive the present year. 
GARROW 1932 (Page-I,)—“ After laying down the great fundamental principle, thatak men are equal tn their rights, it ought to be the invariable object of the social compact to insure the exercise of that equality, by rendering them as ena in all sorts of enjoyments, as can possibly be consistent with good order, industry, and the reward of merit. Every individual ought to he rendered as independent of every other individual as possible; and, atthe same time, as dependent as possible on the whole community. 
GARROW 1933 “ On this siwieniable maxim, I think-the following positions ought to be founded and guaranteed in the constitutional code. 
GARROW 1941 Who was the author of this pamphlet, which appears to have been published by you, intituled “ Advice to the Privileged Orders ?"—I published a amphlet with that title tor Mr. Barlow: I believe this is it. 
GARROW 1942 Do you know whether he was the sole author of it, or were there any other persons: concerned in it
GARROW 1944 Which you published in the same way, I suppose, as you did the other—Had it a large sale 
GARROW 1946 Extracts read from “ Advice to the Privileged Orders of the several States of Europe, resulting from the Necessity and Propriety of aGeneral Revolution in the Principles of Government, Part I. the Third Edition, by Joel Barlow.} 
GARROW 1947 (From page 17 to page 20)
GARROW 1949 “ These are sober opinions, uniting a class of reasoners too numerous and too respectable to be treated with contempt. I believe, however, that their number is every day diminishing ; and I believe the example which France will soon be obliged to exhibit to the world on this subject, will induce every man to reject them who is not personally and exclusively interested in their support. 
GARROW 1950 “ The inconsistency of the Constituent Assembly, in retaining an hereditary king, armed with an enormous civil list, to wage war with aa popular government, has induced some persons to predict the downfall of their constitution ; but this measure had a different origin from what is commonly assigned to it, and: 
GARROW 1951 will probably have a different issue; it was the result rather of local and temporary circumstances, than of any general belief in the utility of kings, under any modifications or limitations that could be attached to the office. 
GARROW 1952 “ It is to be observed, first, that the French had a king upon their hands: this king had always been considered as a well-disposed man; so that, by a fatality somewhat singular, though not unexampled in regal history, he gained the love of the people almost in proportion to the mischief which he did them. 
GARROW 1953 condly, their king had very powerful family connexions in the sovereigns of Spain, Austria, Naples, and Sardinia, besides his relations within the kingdom, whom it was necessary to attach, if possible, to the interests of the community. Thirdly, the Revolution was considered by all Europe as a high and dangerous experiment; it was necessary to hide, as much as possible, the appearance of its Magnitude frum the eye of the distant observer, The reformers considered it as their duty to produce an internal regeneration of society, ratier than an external change in the appearance of the court; to set in order the counting-house and the kitchen, before arranging the drawing-room. This would leave the savereigns of Europe totally without a pretext for interfering, while it would be consoling to that class of philosophers who still believed in the compatibility of royalty and liberty. Fourthly, this decree that France should huve a king, and that he could do no wrong, was passed at an early period of their operations, when the above reasons were apparently more urgent than they were afterwards, or probably will ever be again. 
GARROW 1954 “From these considerations we may can clude that royalty ts preserved in France for reasons which are fugitive; that a majority of the Constituent Assembly did not believe in it as an abstract principle; that a majority of the people will learn to be disgusted with so unnatural and ponderous a deformity in their new edifice, and will soon hew it off. 
GARROW 1955 “ After this improvement shall bave been made, a few years experience in the face of Europe, and on so great a theatre as that of France, will probably leave but one opinion, in the minds of honest men, relative to the republican principle, or the great simplicity of nature, applied to the organization of society. 
GARROW 1956 (Page 21 )—“ It depends on a much more important class of meu, the class that cannot write, and in a great measure on those who cannot read ; it is to be decided by men who reason better without books, than we do with all the books in the world: taking it for granted, therefore, that a general revolution is at hand, whose progress is irresistible, my object is to contemplate its probable effects, and to comfort those who are afflicted at the prospect. 
GARROW 1957 Did you publish the former editions of this work 
GARROW 1959 Was this first published before the death of the late king of the French, or not? 
GARROW 1961 This is the third edition—Do you know whether this was published before, or after that event
GARROW 1963 Be so good as look at that pamphlet: it is called “A Letter to the Addressers, by Thomas Paine. Do you know whether any pamphlet of that sort was published by Thomas Paine 
GARROW 1965 Do you believe this to be one of the copies that were so published 
GARROW 1967 I do not know whether you know any thing of the cheap edition or not; do you know how soon the cheap edition came out alter the first edition 
GARROW 1969 Have you seen any of the cheap edition 
GARROW 1971 Do you know whether that was published about the same tine 
GARROW 1973 Look at that copy of the cheap edition, and say whether you believe that to be one of the copies that were published
GARROW 1977 You have already said, that you believe that to be one of the copies of the large edition which was published by Mr. Paine 
GARROW 1979 Do you believe that to have been printed by a printer making a fac simile without authority, or to be one of the original edition? I ask you upon your oath
GARROW 1983 Whom does that appear in the title-page to be printed by 
GARROW 1985 Is there any other person named as the publisher 
GARROW 1987 Had you communications with the author upon the subject of an edition of the Address to the Addressers
GARROW 1989 I am not asking the witness whether he published or gold any of them, or whether he lent any one, but whether he had any communication with the author upon the subject
GARROW 1993 We will now read the rest of the Minute of the Constitutional Society of the 12th of October, which your lordship recollects we postponed in order to read Mr. Barlow’s book. 
GARROW 1994 “ Ordered, That the secretary be directed to transmit a copy of the Argus of to-morrow to each of the members of this society. 
GARROW 1995 “ Read, The following letter, and inclosed address to the National Convention of France, from the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 1996 o D. Adams, secretary to the Society for Constitutional Information. Sir; Your favour of the third instant, informing us, that our proposal for addressing the French National Convention, had met with the approbation of the Society for Constitutional Information, we have enclosed you a copy of the address we have drawn up, and mean to send, the society at large having approved of it. 
GARROW 1997 “Not in the least presuming to propose it for the adoption of your society, ourselves will deyfully, throw it aside, and as. readily subseribe to any production of your's, better cale culated to answer the purpose, and less unworthy being presented to so august an assembly. “ Should no other be produced, we imagine this plain, but honest address, will be adopted by some other societies, in concurrence with our own; and respecting the manner of signe ing, of conveying, and of presenting it, your better experienced advice will greatly oblige, gentlemen, your very liumble servants, for the committeeaof the Lundon Corresponding Soe ciety, (Signed) 
GARROW 1998 “ Maurice Maroarot, chairman. 
GARROW 1999 “ Thomas Harpy, secretary. “ Thursday, 11th October, 1792. 
GARROW 2000 “ Frenchmen !|—While foreign robbers are ravaging your territories, under the specious retext of justice; cruelty and desolation leading on their van, perfidy with treache' bringing up their rear, yet mercy and friendship impudentiy held forth to the world as the sole motives of their incursions, the oppressed part of mankind forgetting, for awhile, their own sufferings, feel only for yours, and with an anxious eye watch the event, fere vently supplicating the Almighty Ruler of the Universe to be favourable to your cause, so intimately blended with their own. ’ “ Frowned upon by an oppressive system of control, whose gradual, but continued en croachments, have deprived this nation of nearly all its boasted liberty, and brought us almost to that abject state of slavery, frone which you have so emerged, 5,000 British citizens, indignant, manfully step forth to rescue their country from the opprobrium brought upon it, by the supine conduct of those in power. They conceive it to be the duty of Britons to countenance and assist, to the utmost of their power, the champions of human happiness, and to swear to a nation, proceeding on the plan you have adopted, aa inviolable friendship. ed from this day be that friendship between us ! And may vergeance to the uttermost, evertake the man who hereafter shall attempt to cause a rupture. “ Though we appear so few at present, be assured, Frenchmen, that our mumber increases daily ; it is true, that the stern uplifted arm of authority at present keeps back the timid, that busily circulated impostors hourly mislead the credulous, and that court intimacy, with avowed French traitors, has some effect on the unwary, and op the any bitions. But, with certainty, we can inform you, friends and freemen, that information makes a rapid progress among us. Curiosity has taken possession of the public mind; the conjoint reign of ignorance and despotism asses away. Men now ask each other, what is freedom? what are our rights? Frenchmen, you are already free, and Britons are preparing to become so ! “ Casting far from us the criminal prejudices artfully inaulcated by evil-minded men, and wily courtiers; we, mstead of natural enemies, at length discover in Frenchmen, our fellow citizens of the world, and our brethren by the same Heavenly Father, who created us for the purpose of loving and mutually assisting each other; but not to hate, and to be ever ready to cut each others throats, at the command of weak or ambitious kings, and corrupt ministers. 
GARROW 2001 “Seeking our real enemies, we find them in our bosoms; we feel ourselves inwardly torn by, and ever the victims of a restless, all-consuming aristocracy, hitherto the bane of every nation under the sun! Wisely have you acted in expelling it from France. 
GARROW 2002 “ Warm as are our wishes for your success, eager as we are to behold freedom triumphant, and man every where restored to the enjoyment of his just rights,.a sense of our duty, as orderly citizens, forbids our flying in arms to your assistance; our government has pledged the national faith to remain neutral: in a struggle of liberty against despotism, Britons remain neutral! O shame! But we have entrusted our king with discretionary powers; —we therefore must obey; our hands are bound, but our hearts are free, and they are awith you. 
GARROW 2003 “ Let German despots act as they please. We shall rejoice at their fall, compassionating bowever their enslaved subjects. We hope this tyranny of their masters will prove the 
GARROW 2004 Crown and Anchor-tavern, Strana, friday, October 19, 1792, 
GARROW 2005 “ PRESENT, “ Mr. J. H. Tooke in the chair. 
GARROW 2006 “ Mr. Sturch, Mr. Hull, Mr. Frost, Mr. Wil liams, Mr. Merry, Dr. Edwards, Mr. Pearson, Mr. Ausell, Mr. Sharpe, Mr. Brookbank, Mr. Walsh, Mr. Banks, Mr. Bonney, Mr. Peacock, Mr. Walford, Mr. Chatfield, Mr. Joyce, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Balmanno, Mr. Richter, lord Edward Fiugerald, Mr. Sinclair. 
GARROW 2007 «Mr. Sturch produced and read to the society the following answer he was directed ta prepare to Mr. Joel Barlow, which was approved of and published together with Mr. Barlow’s letter to this society in the papers. 
GARROW 2008 “ Sir; your manly and energetic address tothe National Convention in France, having been received by the Society for Constitutional Information, and read at their last meeting, they cannot hesitate to return yoa their unanimous thanks for su valuable a present, and to express in the warmest terms their hearty approbation of its spirit and tesdency: your little treatise, by exhibiting the most important political truths in a new and striking-point of view, is, in their opinion, happily -calculated to inform the inquiring mind, and to inspire an ardent and enlightenmeans of reinstating, in the full enjoyment ofed zeal for the freedum and happiness of their rights and liberties, millions of our feldow creatures. 
GARROW 2009 “ With unconcern, therefore, we view the elector of Hanover join his troops to traitors and robbers; but the king of Great Britain will do well to remember, that this country is mot Harover
GARROW 2011 “ While you enjoy the envied glory of being the unaided defenders of freedom, we mankind. In this opinion, they doubt not, the public voice will concur, when the pampile shall have obtained that general circuation to which its merits entitle it. 
GARROW 2012 “ It is with reason that you think the subject of your book not foreign to the t object of the society, which has invariably been, to lead their countrymen to think for themselves on the momentous subject of government, and thus to produce an universal and fondly anticipate, in idea, the numerous bles-practical conviction of one great truth, that sings mankind will enjoy, if you succeed, as without a real representation of the people, we ardently wish, the triple alliance (not offrequently renewed, there can be no ettectusl crowns, but) of the people of America, France, and Britain, will give freedom to Europe, and peace to the whole world. Dear friends, you combat for the advantage of the human race. How well purchased will be, though: at the expense of much blood, the glorious, the unprsecdenyed privilege of saying, maukind is ree! Tyrants and tyranny are no more! Peace reigns on the earth! And this is the work of Frenchmen. 
GARROW 2013 “ Resolved, That the thanks of this society be given to the London Corresponding Society, for the above address transmitted by them; and that the secretary acquaint them, this society do highly approve of the spirit-of the same. 
GARROW 2014 check to that system of corruption, by which the public treasure is squandered; no security for that portion of liberty which we shall enjoy, nor any rational hope that government will be conducted with a view to its only proper object, the happiness of the many, and Not the interest of the few. 
GARROW 2015 “ The society observe, with heart-felt satis faction, that in the present great crisis of human affairs while some writers are found even in this country, who openly proclaim what they call the ‘ cause of kings’ in opposition te the cause of the people, whom they impudently term the ‘ swinish multitude 7 there are not warting on the other hand, men of the first character and ability who nobly vindicate the rights of man, and they trust, that your excellent writings in general, and the letter to the Convention of France in poe lar, will be eminently conducive to the sue
GARROW 2016 “ At a-meeting of the society held at thecess and final triumph of that cause, which you justly style “the most glorious that ever en the atiention of mankind.’ Joel Bazlow, esq. 
GARROW 2017 Read the following letter from the London Corresponding Sociey : 
GARROW 2018 London, October 18, 1792. 
GARROW 2019 “ Sir, The London Corresponding Society learn, with pleasure, that the Society for Cometitatiooal. Information approve the spirit of our address; but to come back to the point, we imagine that as you had previously approved the measure, and as you now like the spirit of the address, we may with propriety, ask you, whether you will concur with us in sending that address, or whether: you will draw up another better suited to the present circumstances ; and permit us to join you in transmitting it to the French National Convention
GARROW 2021 “ Macrice Marcaror, chairman. 
GARROW 2022 “D. Apams, secretary to the Society for Constitutional Information. 
GARROW 2023 “ Resolved, That the committee be apinted to confer with the delegates of the ndon Corresponding Society, on an address to the National Convention of France. 
GARROW 2024 “ Ata meeting of the society held Friday, tavern, Strand, 
GARROW 2025 “ Mr. John Frost in the chair, 
GARROW 2026 “ Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Peacock, Mr. Moore, Mr. Hull, Mr. Walford, Dr. Edwards, Mr. Sharpe, Mr. Banks, Mr. Balmanno, Dr. Maxwell, Mr. J. Martin, Mr. Sinclair, Mr. Sturch, Mr. Joyce, colonel Keating, Mr. Pearson, Mr. Bonney, Mr. I. Williams, Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Brookbank, Mr. Dodson, Mr. Sutton, Mr. Bailey, Mr. Mor
GARROW 2027 ‘gan, Mr. Barlow, Mr. Satchell, Mr. J. Sites Mr. Richter, Mr. Geddes. 
GARROW 2028 “ The-secretary read the report of the committee appointed at the last meeting. 
GARROW 2029 “ Resolved, That the report of the committee be re-committed. 
GARROW 2030 ‘¢ Ordered, That the secretary do procure correct copies of the manifesto, published by the late general Burgoyne while in America ; of the first manifesto lately published by the duke of Brunswick in France; of the last royal proclamation against writings and meetings in England; and of the emperor’s recent Prelamation at Brussels on the same subject. 
GARROW 2031 n order that these four pieces may be printed fairly together on one shcet of paper, and be transmitted by this society to al ated societies in Great Britain. 
GARROW 2032 “ Resolved, That the above order be published in the newspapers. 
GARROW 2033 “ Resolved, That at the next meeting of this society, they do consider of an answer to the London Corresponding Society on the ll the associ-: 
GARROW 2034 subject of their letter, accompanying their address to the National Conventiun of France. 
GARROW 2035 “ Resolved : That at the said meeting, the society do attend to the example of the London Corresponding Society, and consider of an address to the National Convention of France. : 
GARROW 2036 Ata meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor-tavern, Strand, Friday, November 2, 1792, 
GARROW 2037 4 “ PRESENT, ‘ “ Mr. Frost in the chair, 
GARROW 2038 “Mr. Tooke, Mr. Bosville, Mr. Walsh, Dr. Edwards, Mr. Bonney, Mr. J. Martin, Mr. Sturch, Mr. Sharp, Mr. Geddes, colonel Keating, Mr. Rae, Mr. Bakewell, Mr. Joyce, Mr. Barlow, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Sinclair, Mr. Uolcroft, Mr. Williams, Mr. Hind, Mr. Tuffin, Mr. M. Bush, Mr. G. Williams, Mr. Aspinal, Mr. Fitzgerald. ‘ 
GARROW 2039 “ Resolved, That a committee of correspondence be appointed, to consider of, and prepare answers to all such letters as are, or may be, sent to this society. 
GARROW 2040 “ Ordered, That the answer to the letter of the London Corresponding Society, acompanying their address to the National Convention of France, be referred to the said’ committee. 
GARROW 2041 “ Resolved, That a committee be appointed to consider of an address to the National Convention of France. Resolved, That Messrs. Barlow, Sinclair, and Tuffin, do compose the said committee ; and that the said committee be requested to make their report on Friday next. 
GARROW 2042 “ Ata meeting of the socicty for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor, Strand, Friday 9th November, 1792. 
GARROW 2043 “ PRESENT,Lord Sempill in the chair, 
GARROW 2044 “Mr. Bosville, Mr. Rae, Mr. Hull, Mr., Sharpe, Mr. Jennings, Mr. Sutton, Mr. Frost, Mr. Tooke,Mr. Sturch, col. Keating, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Barlow, Mr. Tuffin, Mr. Sinclair,Mr. Margarot, Mr. Watts, Mr. Richter, Mr. Littlejohn, captain Perry, Mr. John Martin, Mr. Banks, Mr. Williams, Mr. Geddes, Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Gerrald, Mr. Rickman, Mr. Bush, jun, Mr. Lockhart, Mr. Moore, he committee appointed at the last meeting to prepare an address from this society to the National Convention of France, made their report, and produced the following address which was read and approved : 
GARROW 2045 “ The Society for Constitutional Information in London, to the National Convention of France. 
GARROW 2046  Servants of a sovereign People, and Benefactors of Mankind, We rejoice that You, revolution has arrived at that point of perfection which will permit us to address you by this title; it is the only one that can accord with the character of true legislators. Every successive epoch in your affairs, has added something to the triumphs of liberty; and the glorious victory of the 10th of August, has fi prepared the way for a constitution, which we trust you will establish on the basis of reason and nature. 
GARROW 2047 ‘ Considering the mass of delusion accu mulated on mankind, to obscure their understandings, you cannot be astonished at the opposition you have met both from tyrants and from slaves. The instrument used against you by each of these classes is the same; for in the genealogy of human miseries, ignorance is at once the parent of oppression, and the child of submission. he events of every day are proving, that your cause is cherished by the people in all your continental vicinity; that a majority of each of those nations are your real friends, whose governments have tutored them into apparent foes, and that they only wait to be delivered by your arms from the dreaded necessity of fighting against them. 
GARROW 2048 “ The condition of Englishmen is less to be deplored—here the hand of oppression has not yet ventured completely to ravish the pen from us, nor openly to point the sword at you. From bosoms burning with ardour in your cause, we tender you our warmest wishes for the full extent of its progress and success. It is indeed a sacred cause ; we cherish it as the pledge of your happiness, our natural and nearest friends; and we rely upon it as the bond of fraternal union to the human race, in which union our own nation will surely be one of the first to concur. 
GARROW 2049 “ Our government has still the power, and perhaps the inclination, to employ hirelings to cuntradict us; but it is our real opinion, that we now speak the sentiments of a great majority of the English nation
GARROW 2051 “ Go on, legislators, in the work of human happiness— the benefits will in part be ours, but the glory shall be all your own It is the reward of your perseverance, it is the prize of virtue. The sparks of liberty preserved in England for ages like the coruscations of the noi aurora, served but to show the darkness visible in the rest of Europe. The lustre of the American republic, like an effulent morning, rose with increasing vigour, ut still too distant to enlighten our hemisphere, till the splendour of the French revolution burst forth upon the nations, in the full fetvour of a meridian sun, and displayed in ahe midst of the European world, the practical result of principles which philosophy had sought in the shade of speculation, and which experience inust every where confirm. It dispels the clouds of prejudice from all people, reveals the secrets of all despotism, and creates a new character in man. e 
GARROW 2052 “ In this career of improvement, your example will be soon followed; for nations rising from their lethargy, will reclaim the rights of man, with a voice which man cannot resist. (Signed by order of the Society) “ SemPitt, chairman, “D. Avams, secretary. 
GARROW 2053 “ Resolved, That the thanks of this society be given to the committee whe prepared the above address. 
GARROW 2054 “ Resolved, That Mr. Barlow and Mr.. Frost be deputed by this society to present the address of this society at the bar of the National Convention of France. 
GARROW 2055 “ Resolved, That the thanks of this society be given to Mr. Barluw and Mr. Frost for accepting the above deputation. 
GARROW 2056 “ Resolved, That the said address be signed by the chairman and secretary. 
GARROW 2057 “ Resolved, that a subscription: be opened in this society, for the purpose of assisting the efforts of France, in the cause of freedom. 
GARROW 2058 “ Resolved, That the above resolution be published in the morning and evening papers. 
GARROW 2059 “ Resolved, That an answer be returned by the secretary, to the London Corresponding Society’s letter, accompanied by a few cupies of Mr. Paine’s letters te the French people. 
GARROW 2060 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, 16th November, 1792, 
GARROW 2061 “ Present, “ Mr. Bosville in the chair, 
GARROW 2062 “ Mr. Sharpe, Mr. Hull, Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Pearson, Mr. Frost, Mr. Bonney, Mr. Moore, Mr. Jennings. Mr. Gerraid, Dr. Edwards, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Barlow, Mr. Banks, Mr. Sturch, Mr. Tooke, Mr. Bush, jun, Mr. Aspinal, Mr. Rae, Dr. Smith, col. Keating, Mr. Chatfield, Mr. Martin, Mr. Holerof, Mr. Balmanno, Mr. Phillips, Mr. Sinclair, Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Joyce, Mr. Grant, Mr. Tuffin, Mr. Margarot, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Milner, Mr. Watts, Mr. Bailey, capt. Perry, Mr. Walford, Mr. Sutton. 
GARROW 2063 “ Read a letter from Mr. Phillips, of Leieester, requesting that the particulars of this society might be sent him for the purpose of establishing a constitutional society in that town. 
GARROW 2064 “ Ordered, That the secretary send to Mr. Phillips, such of the publications of this society, as he may think necessary for the purpose mentioned in Mr. Phillips's letter. 
GARROW 2065 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitetional Informatjon, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, 7th December, 
GARROW 2066 1792, Present, 
GARROW 2067 Mr. Bryant in the chair, Mr. John Martin, col. Keating, Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Bonney, Mr. Sharpe, Mr. Satchell, Mr. Walsh, Mr. Delacour, Mr. G. Maltby. Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. G. Williams, 
GARROW 2068 Mr. Sturch, Mr. Richter, Mr. Sinclair, Mr. Chatfield, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Campbell, Mr. Watts, Mr. Cooper, (Jefferys-sq.) Rev. Dr. Towers, Mr. Balmanno, Dr. Smith, Mr. Bailey, Mr. Rae, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Joyce, Mr. White, Lord Sempill, Mr. Lockhart, 
GARROW 2069 “ Read a letter from Mr. Barlow and Mr. Frost, with the address to the National Convention of France, and the answer of the president. 
GARROW 2070 “ Ordered, That the same be taken into consideration at some future meeting. 
GARROW 2072 This is the letter referred to in the minute last read. 
GARROW 2073 “ Citizens and Associates, We have. executed your commission to the National Convention of France, in a manner which we hope will meet your approbation. A translation of the papers herewith inclosed, was yesterday presented at the bar of the convention, and received with universal applause. After which, the president gave us the kiss of fraternity. in behalf of the French nation, which we returned in behalf of our society. The scene was truly interesting to ener feeling of humanity, and drew tears fro crowded assembly. It gave rise to reflexions, which can scarcely be conceived by men in any other circumstance of life; it was the reconciliation of brothers, who had long been excited to a mortal enmity by misunderstanding and mutual imposition, The .wounds which had bled for ages were closed and forgot, while the voice of nature declared they shoald never more be opened. The president pronounced a discourse in answer to our dress, which we likewise enclose. 
GARROW 2074 “ Jozi Bartow. Paris 20th Nov.1792. “ Joan Frost. To the Society for Constitutional Information in London. 
GARROW 2075 “ Atthe Bar of the Convention, November 28. “ Citizens of France, We are deputed ftom the Society for Constitutional Information in London, to present to you their congratulations on the triumphe ob liberiy. This society had laboured long in the cause, with little prospect of success, previous to the commencement of your revolution. Conceive then their exultations of F iaangaa when by the astonishing efforts of your nation, they behold the reign of reason acquiring an exaj own. 
GARROW 2076 tension and solidity, which promise to reward the labours of alg men, by securing the happiness of their fellow creatures. 
GARROW 2077 “ Innumerable societies of a similar nature are now forming in every part of England, Scotland, and Ireland. They excite a spirit of universal inquiry into the complicated abuses of government, and the simple means of reform. 
GARROW 2078 “ After the example which France has fren, the science of revolutions will be renlered easy, and the progress of reason will be rapid. It would not be strange, if, in a period far short of what we should venture to predict, addresses of felicitation should cross the seas to a mational convention in England. 
GARROW 2079 “ We are also commissioned to inform the convention, that the society which we represent has sent to the soldiers of liberty a patriotic donation of one thousand pair of shoes, which are by this time arrived at Calais; and the society will continue sending a thousand paic a week for at least six weeks to come. We only wish to know to whose care they ought to be addressed. “Jor. Bartow, 
GARROW 2080 “ Joan Frost. “ Paris, Nov. 28th, 1799. 
GARROW 2081 “ The President's Answer. 
GARROW 2082 “ Btave children of a nation which has given lustre te the two worlds, and great examples to the universe; you have addressed us with something more than good wishes, since the condition of our warriors has exe cited your solicitude, The defenders of our liberty will one day be the supporters of your You command our esteem, you will accept our gratitude. The sons of liberty through the world will never forget their obligations to the English nation. 
GARROW 2083 “ The shades of Pym, of Hampden, and of Sydney, are hovering over your heads ; and. the moment cannot be distant, when the people of France will offer their congratulations to a national convention in England. Too long has the torch of discord enflamed ad-the English and the French; while the ambition of kings, fomenting national aversions, compelled them -to forget, that nature has produced none but brothers. 
GARROW 2084 “ Your islands, it is said, were severed from the continent by a great convulsion of the globe; but liberty, established on the two shores of the narrow sea which divides us, will repair the breach, and restore the two nations to the harmony and friendship for which nature has designed them. Rea- son has begun her majestic march; she can no longer be resisted in her course. 
GARROW 2085 “ Generous republicans, your appearence in this place will form an epoch in the history of matikind. History will consecrate the da} when, from a nation long regarded as a tival, and in the name of a great number of your fellow-citizens, you appeared in the midst of the representatives of the pcople of France, and she will not forget to recount, that our hearts expanded at the sight. ‘ell the society which deputed you, and assure your fellow-citizens in general, that in your friends, the French, you have found men. 
GARROW 2086 “ At a meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, December 14, 1792, “ PRESENT, , “ My. J. H. Tooke in the chair. 
GARROW 2087 “Mr. Christopher Hull, some part of the time in the chair. 
GARROW 2088 “ Mr. W. Sha Mr. Bonney, Mr. J. Martin, Mr. Balmanno, jun..Mr. G. Maltby, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Chatfield, lord Sempill, Mr. Moore, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Tuffin, Mr. 
GARROW 2089 Hardy, Mr. Reader, Mr. Satchell, Mr. Banks, Mr. Sturch, Mr. Lockhart, Mr. Rutt, Mr. B. Cooper, Mr. Chalk, Mr. Margarot, Mr. Rae, Mr. Fitzgerald, colonel Keating, Mr. G. Watts, Mr. Williams, Mr. Campbell, Mr. Jennings, Mr. Sinclair, : 
GARROW 2090  “ Read a printed address from Manchester. 
GARROW 2091 “ Resolved, That the said address be approved for publishing in the newspapers, 
GARROW 2092 “A motion was made and seconded, that the 20th law of this society be suspended on this occasion, which motion was carried in the affirmative, 
GARROW 2093 “Resolved, That the said address be Printed in the newspapers. 
GARROW 2094 “ Resolved, That one, hundred thousand Copies of the same be printed by this society, and distributed to their correspondents in Great Britain and Ireland. 
GARROW 2095 “ Resolved, That the said resolutions be signed by the chairman and secretary, 
GARROW 2096 “ Read a letter from the Society of Friends of Liberty and Equality, sitting at Laon, capital of the department D’l’Aisne, to the patriotic society of Londen, named the Society for Constitutional Information. 
GARROW 2097 “ Resolved, That the said letter be referred to the committee of correspondence. 
GARROW 2099 You resided, I believe, for a considerable time in France 
GARROW 2101 — ees “ In 1795, appointesl under secretary of State to Mr. Dundas, in the war department. He was afterwards secretary of the treasury durin, Mr. Pitt’s second administration, and also during the time the duke of Portland was at the head of the treasury. On the 
GARROW 2102 You are well acquainted with the French language
GARROW 2104 Mr. Huskisson delivered into court English translations of the three letters produced by Maclean.} 
GARROW 2105 “ Apt, the 17th December, “ First yeur of the French Repubtic. he popular and republican society of Apt, department of the mouths of the Rhone, to the popular society, sitting at London. 
GARROW 2106 “LIVE FREE, OR DIE! 
GARROW 2107 “ Citizens, Brethren and Friends, When two great nations, acquainted with their rights, approximated by their commercial connexions and their natural situation, formed to love and to act in concert with each other, begin to frame the glorious project of uniti themselves for the regeneration of the human race, one may then say with reason, that kings are ripe and ready to fall. 
GARROW 2108 “How glorious will it be for France and England to have formed alone a confede: destructive of tyrants, and to have purc! at the price of their blood, the liberty of Europe—we may say more, of the whole universe. 
GARROW 2109 “ Courage, brethren and friends. It is for you to follow us in the glorious and hazardous career of the revolution of the world. Can ye any longer groan under the yoke of a government, that has nothing of liberty but the name? For, although your land was inhabited before others by freemen, can ye, without illusion, consider your government as i “ Will ye content yourselves with a partial freedom ie Will the ‘Tagliah be satisfied with principles? Will that bold nation, that has produced philosophers the most profound, and that first of all perceived the 5 i rays of reason, remain a spectatrix in so noble a cause. 
GARROW 2110 “No, brethren and friends, no! you will soon lift yourselves up against that perfidious court of St. James's, whose infernal policy, like to that which found its tomb in the Thuilleries, has made so many victims in our two nations, and-does disunite them perpetually to rule over them. 
GARROW 2111 “ Your love for liberty has fixed your attention upon the wants of our defenders; your generosity toward them is a title to the acknowledgments of the republic. We are impatient to furnish you the same advantages, The Popular societies of France desire ardently the epoch that shall permit them to address their vows to the national assembly of Great Britain, and to offer to the bayonets, and pikes. he members composing the Committee of Correspondence : “ AUSELME Raspaup, “ Ausor, SEBRET, ‘¢ ABUISE, Perrin AGLEAN. “ Voi, 
GARROW 2112 To the citizens composing the Constitutional Society, sitting at London. 
GARROW 2113 The Society of the Friends of Liberty and Equality, sitting at Ladn, the head of the department of the Aisne, to the patriotic society of London, called the Society for Constitutional Information. 
GARROW 2114 “ Generous Republicans; — The philanthropic gift that you have presented to the warriors of France, announces, with energy, the great interest that you take in the sacred cause which they are defending. 
GARROW 2115 Accept the thanks of a society that does honour to itself in esteeming you. 
GARROW 2116 he time, perhaps, is not far distant, when the soldiers of our liberty shall be able to testify their gratitude to you. Then their pr their blood itself, shall be at the service of all your fellow-citizens, who, like you, acknowledge no rights but the rights of man. Then France and England shall form together a treaty of union as lasting as the course of the Seine and the Thames. Then there, as here, there shall exist no other reign but that of liberty, equality, and friendship. May this day of felicity and glory soon shine upon the horizon of two nations, formed to admire each other. 
GARROW 2117 “ The members composing the Committee of Correspondence. 
GARROW 2118 “ Hamarpes, Bawory, Demoncraux. The envelope is directed “ To the patriotic society of London, called the Society for Constitutional Information, at London, England. 
GARROW 2119 “ First year of the French Republic. 
GARROW 2120 6th December, 1792. 
GARROW 2121 he Society of the Friends of Liberty and Equality, established at Macon, department of the Saone and Loire, to the Constitutional 
GARROW 2122 Society of London. Yes, citizens, our brethren and friends, the 10th of August, 1792, shall be distinguished in the annals of the world as the day of the triumph of liberty. “ Our first revolution did but show to us the salutary principles of the imprescriptible i of man: except the unprincipled, and the enemies of humanity, adopted them with enthusiasm. It was then that we formed ourselves into a society, in order the better to impress them upon ourselves, and afterwards to teach them to our fellowcitizens. 
GARROW 2123 “Our first. constitution had consecrated them, but had not always taken them for its base. The dominion of the passions, the force of habit, the impression of prejudices, and the power of the intrigues employed in our Constituent Assembly, found the secret to preserve sufficient authority to our tyrants, to extinguish, at some time, the sacred rights of nature, and to re-establish despotism on its throne of iron. 
GARROW 2124 “ But royalty, thus preserved, was not content with the victory that had secured to it the greatest number of the corrupt persons who surrounded it. It was impatient to rea the fruits that it appeared to promise iteelk But its too great eagerness has hastened its ruin, and secured the triumph of reason. 
GARROW 2125 he French, proud of their new existence, soon perceived the fault of their first legislators, became sensible of the imperfection of its first laws—saw that they made a surrender of the rights of liberty and equality which they had embraced, they roused themselves anew to demand, at length, laws impartial and humane. 
GARROW 2126 “From thence the necessary day of the tenth of August 1792. From thence a second revolution, but a revolution which is only the completion of the first, which has received our vows and our oaths, and which we will bless for ever, if it leads us, as we hope it will, to the happiness of the nation, to the constant maintenance of liberty and equality. 
GARROW 2127 “ Let intriguers, tools, and tyrants calumniate us; we despise them too much to condescend to answer them, and seek for their esteem. 
GARROW 2128 hat which flatters us, is, the interest that you take in our labours, your attention to contribute to the success of our arms; we desire your esteem, we are proud of your approbation. 
GARROW 2129 “ We smile at the expression of the sentiments that you manifested to our representatives: we behold a nation of brethren rouse itself to support the cause of humanity: we behold the brave English adopt our principles, become our friends ; we say to ourselves with pleasure, soon will they become our allies, and, uniting our efforts, we shall go on to deliver the universe from the yoke of tyrants—to restore the nations to reason and nature. 
GARROW 2130 hat day is not far distant, if we may rely on our own courage, and the hope of your alliance. 
GARROW 2131 “ Inthe mean time receive our thanks, and correspond with brethren who set a high value upon your esteem. ; : (Signed) “ Lavenze, the younger president. 
GARROW 2138 Now I will give some ‘account of what these transactions of the 10th of August were, which are stated as necessary to liberty. 
GARROW 2139 Were you i: Paris op the 10th of August, 1792
GARROW 2141 What was the nature of that which you describe as a contest, which kept you at home
GARROW 2143 What did you find had occasioned the firing; from what had it ded, the firing of and the firing the buildings
GARROW 2145 Was the palace, at that time, the residence of the king and his family 
GARROW 2147 Can you describe any other transactions of that day, which came within your knowled; at the moment, or that came within your o! servation afterwards
GARROW 2149 In point of fact, the governor of the palace took shelter at your house 
GARROW 2151 I submit to your lordship, that what the governor of the palace said at the time of taking shelter at the house of this English gentleman, is evidence. 
GARROW 2154 You were saying that you went out in the evening
GARROW 2157 Just so—we are perfectly content to take it so. 
GARROW 2158 Mr. Huskisson.
GARROW 2160 I believe every body knows, except the jury. 
GARROW 2166 Look at these four papers—see if you find your name upon these, and whether you seized these 
GARROW 2168 Are you one of his majesty’s messengers
GARROW 2170 Were you present when these pape were found
GARROW 2172 Was that after Mr. Tooke was taken into custody
GARROW 2174 Where were they found
GARROW 2176 Who were present when they were found
GARROW 2178 Did they attend as friends of Mr. Tooke 
GARROW 2180 You got the keys, and you found these papers 
GARROW 2182 Draft of a Letter from Mr. Tooke to the Mayor of Paris, in Mr. Tooke’s handwriting. 
GARROW 2183 “ Sir, You are in no want of friends in England, who ardently wish to be useful to French hberty. But we wish to know some one of your friends, who resides in Lond in whom you have an entire confidence, an to whom we may give our money, in the assurance that it will be remitted to you without delay, and without fraud. Mr. Frost, to whom I entrust this letter, is going to set out immediately with Mr. Paine, for Paris, and allows me no time for ceremony, if it were necessary. I request you tu send me the name of some Frenchman, in London, mer- — chant, or other, for the purpose above mentioned. Wecan now begin the public contribution towards our patriotic gift with 1,000,, sterling; and I have no doubt but it. will amount in time to several thousands. 
GARROW 2184 “If you consider this step in the same point of view that we do, you will see in it much use to the common cause of England and France. I entreat you to give me yeur sentiments on the subject, and to paint out to me the means by which I may be useful to you. J. Horne Tooxs, 
GARROW 2185 “ Brothers and Friends, Liberty is a bond which ought to unite men, and which will one day unite all nations. These are preparing those great revolutions which disseminate useful truths. Thus the philosophical societies make all despots tremble. You have the glorious advantage of deserving the hatred of your government. The league of tyrants will never be able to resist the power of reason. Continue your precious labours —employ yourselves in the enfranchisement and the happiness of the human race. You will find in the French, worthy fellow labourers
GARROW 2187 6th October, first year of the 
GARROW 2188 French Republic. “ Society of the Friends of the Revolution. 
GARROW 2189 Paris, the first of October, 1792, the first year of the French Republic, T have received, sir, the letter which you have done me the honour of addressing to me of the 13th ult. in which you announce to me, that we are in no want of friends in England, who ardently wish to be useful to the French liberty ; and that it would be necessary that I should point out to you some person resident in London, entitled to full confidence, and to whom you might remit, in full safety, the funds resulting from the petiotic gift which our countrymen are willing to contribute. ou cannot, sir, doubt of myi eagerness to second views so useful, which will for ever merit our gratitude, will rivet the links of fraternity between us, and must produce the eatest advantages to England and France. f shall have the honour, sir, of sending you, without delay, the name of the person in whose hands you may place the funds which you destine to the support of a cause which, in truth, is that of all people who cherish liberty. For the mayor of Paris, “ Boncuer Rene, Off. municipt. “ Received at Wimbledon, Wednesday, Oct. 9. Indorsed “ ist October, 1792
GARROW 2191 “ Mr. President; Thirty years ago] travelled in France, when she was enslaved. I received a thousand civilities, and I was chagrined at her destiny. I now come to acquit myself of a small part of my former debt to France, in a state of freedom. I entreat her to accept these 4,000 livres, and to apply them to the expenses of the war against all the tyrants who have dared, or shall dare, to attempt against her liberty, without excepting any one, were it even of my own country. As to the debt of honour newly contracted as a French citizen, it will be the object of the rest of m: 
GARROW 2192 His a acquit myself of it faithfully and with 
GARROW 2193 Indorsed “ Draft of an Address to the President of the French Convention, in Mr. Tooke’s own hand-writing. 
GARROW 2213 During your residence in Paris, and after you came to this country, were you in the habit of secin the paper called the Moniteur Universelle. was. 
GARROW 2214 Look at these printed papers and’say, whether from their appearance you take them, to be the French papers of those dates
GARROW 2216 You are I understand a bookseller 
GARROW 2218 Your shop was chiefly employed in selling foreign publications I believe
GARROW 2220 You sold French newspapers
GARROW 2222 And these French newspapers came by the channel of the post from France, and by the channel of private conveyance
GARROW 2224 You are acquainted with the French language 
GARROW 2226 You probably have had many thousand French newspapers pass through your hands
GARROW 2228 Whether you are acquainted with thaf paper the Nationale Gazette, or Universclle Moniteur 
GARROW 2230 Did you ever know of any of these French papers with the French titles, and in that shape, reprinted in England 
GARROW 2232 From the paper, from the type, and from the general appearance of these papers which you hold in your hand, comparing them with the recollection of those which passed through cu hand, in the way of your trade, do you lieve these to be the French Moniteur, published in France, and conveyed to this country, in the way you have stated
GARROW 2234 We are not permitted to compare them with others; is that French paper, and is it rinted with French types
GARROW 2279 I propose now to red the answer of the Birmingham Society, dated 25th March, 1798, to this communication of the Constitutional Society. 
GARROW 2315 At the meeting of the 22nd of March, the consideration of this letter was postponed ; it was postponed at the next Meeting ; and at the next meeting it is again postponed, which shows the deliberation required for preparing the answer. 
GARROW 2316 The following entries were read from the books of the Constitutional Society.] 
GARROW 2317 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor-tavern, Strand, Friday, 5th April, 1793, 
GARROW 2318 “ PRESENT, 
GARROW 2319 “ Capt. Tooke Harwood in the chair. 
GARROW 2320 ‘Mr. Tuffin, Lord Daer, Mr. Frost, Mr. Ausell, Mr. Bonney, Mr. Hitgeerelds Mr. Martin, Mr. W. Sharpe, Mr. Tooke, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Hull, Mr. Moore, Rev. Mr. Joyce, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. J. Cooper, Mr. aa Mr. Balmanno, Lord Sempill, Mr. 
GARROW 2321 Revolve, That the consideration of the letter from the United Political Societies of Norwich, be postponed till the next meeting ; and that Mr. Frost be requested to prepare an answer. ; : 
GARROW 2322 “ Resolved, That a letter he written to Simon Butler and Oliver Bond, esqrs., expressive, of the high sense we entertain of their exertions in the cause of freedom, and to assure them, that we consider the imprisonment they at present suffer on that account, as illegal and unconstitutional. 
GARROW 2323 “ The following letter was produced and read. To S, Butler and a. Bond, esqrs. 
GARROW 2324 “ gentlemen, It is not easy for men, who feel strongly and sincerely, to convey those feelings by letter. We therefore rely an your Conceiving for us much of that which we are unable to express to you. We think, however, that we shall be guilty of a great omission, did we neglect the opportunity of sending you by Mr. Hamilton Rowan, t ihe honest tribute of our esteem and admiration, for your brave and manly resistance to the’ usurped jurisdiction of the Irish aristocracy. 
GARROW 2325 “ Permit us to offer you our thanks, and our grateful acknowledgment of your efforts, in what we consider as a common cause, while we lament our inability of proving ourselves useful in your defence. Although we are of different kingdoms, still we are but one peor ; and as the freedom of one continent as spread its influence to Europe, so on the other hand, we are persuaded, that the establishment of despotism in Ireland, must end in the slavery of Great Britain. But the light of liberty is not confined to one shore, or one latitude. 
GARROW 2326 “ We know that it is easier to admire than to practise those virtues that tend to the public benefit. 
GARROW 2327 “ Yet so long as the exertions of a few courageous men must influence the minds of at least the independent and thinking part of the community, we are assured that their labour is not fruitless. We trust, therefore, the time will soon arrive, when the abuse of power in either nation, will have no other consequence than the ruin of those who have committed that injustice. We hope, and we doubt not of soon seeing the day, when the post of honour shall be no longer that af obloquy and punishment; but when those who have risked their liberty and fortune in the cause of their countrymen, may find pro tection in the undisputed, uninterrupted exercise of trial by jury, with a full and adequate Tepresentation of the people in parliament, 
GARROW 2328 “ Resolved, That the said letter be signed by the chairman and secretary ; and that Mr. Hamilton Rowan be requested to convey the same to Mr. Butler and Mr. Bond. 
GARROW 2329 “ At a meeting of the Society for Constitational Informution, held Friday, 12th April, 1793, at the Crown and Anchor Tavern, Strand, 
GARROW 2330  PREseNT, “ Mr. Christopher Hull in the chair, 
GARROW 2331 “ Mr. W. Sharpe, Mr. Horne Tooke, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Frost, Mr. 
GARROW 2332 Symonds, Mr. Campbell, Mr. Martin, Mr. 
GARROW 2333 Reader, Mr. Gay, Mr. Vaughan, as one of the committee of French subscription, Mr. Banks, ford Daer, captain Harwood, Mr. Balmanno, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Chatfield. 
GARROW 2334 '« Mr. Frost read an answer (directed to be prepared by him) to the letter received from the United Political Societies in Norwich. 
GARROW 2335 Resolved, That the said answer be sent by -the secretary to the secretary of the said societies. 
GARROW 2342 My lord, from the contents of this paper, we state it to be the draft of a letter prepared by Mr. Frost, referred to in the last resolution read. 
GARROW 2344 No, I have not. I produce it merely as being found in the possession of Adams, the secretary to the Society for Constitutional Information. I will now put into court the letter actually sent, which was found in the possession of the secretary to the Norwich Society. It is dated, “ Society for Constitutional Information, London, 15th April, 1793, signed by order, in the name of the Society for Constitutional Information, D. Adams, secretary, and addressed “ Mr. J. Broughton, secretary to the United Political Societies, Norwich. 
GARROW 2345 “ Society for Constitutional Information. 
GARROW 2346 “ London, 15th April, 1793. 
GARROW 2347 “ Sir; We have to acknowledge with great satisfaction the letter which you favoured us with, dated the 5th instant, relative to the most desirable of all other objects, the reform of a parliamentary representation. The honour you do us in supposing that we are better fitted than yourselves for the promotion of political knowledge, we must disclaim; because we observe with the greatest pleasure, that our country correspondents have too much zeal and information to want success in their public endeavours, whether at Norwich, at Sheffield, at Manchester, or elsewhere throughout the nation. 
GARROW 2348 “ In our sincerity for the good of our country, we trust, that we are all equal, and as such we doubt not of our ultimate success. 
GARROW 2349 “ We see with sorrow the existence of those evils, which you so justly represent as the streams of corruption overflowing this once free and prosperous country. e see with surprise and abhorrence, that men are to be found both able and willing to support those corruptions. It is however no small consolation to find, that others are not wanting in every part of the nation of an opposite character, who are ready to remedy, ie all laudable and honourable means, the defect in our representation, the usurped extension of the duration cf parliaments, and other grievances such as you notice in your letter. 
GARROW 2350 “ That the constitution of England has no more of that character it once possessed, that the supposed democracy of the country has become a matter of property and privilege, and that we have therefore no longer that mixt government which our adversaries are praising, when they know it is no longer in our possession, are facts notorious and indisputable. Where then are we to look for the remedy? To that parliament of which we complain? To the executive power which is imlicitly obeyed, if not anticipated in that pariament? Or to ourselves, represented in some meeting of delegates for the especial purpose of reform, which we suppose you understand by the word CONVENTION ? 
GARROW 2351 “ It is the end of each of these propositions that we ought to look to; and as success in & good cause must be the effect of perseverance, and the rising reason of the time, let us deters mine with coolness, but let us persevere with decision. 
GARROW 2352 “ As toa Convention, we regard it as a plan the most desirable and most practicable, so soon as the great body of the people shall be courageous and virtuous enough to join us in the attempt. Hitherto we have no reason to believe that the moment is arrived for that purpose. As to any petition to the crown, we believe it hopeless in its consequences. With respect to the last of your proposals, we are ata loss to advise. If the event is looked to in the vote which may be obtained from that body to whom the petition is to be ad. dressed, which of us can look to it without the prospect of an absolute negative? In this. point of view therefore it cannot require moment’s consideration. But if we the policy of such a petition, it may, in our ape prehension, be well worth considering as a warning voice to our present legislators, and as a signal for imitation to the majority of the people. Should such a plan be vigorously and generally pursued, it would hold out a. certainty to our fellow-countrymen, that we are not a handful of individuals unworthy of attention or consideration, who desire the restoration of the ancient liberties of England ; but, on the contrary, it might bring into light that host of well-meaning men, who in the different towns and counties of this reatm are silently but seriously anxious for a reformation in the government. 
GARROW 2353 “We exhort you with anxiety to pursue your laudable endeavours for the common good, and never to despair of the public cause. 
GARROW 2354 “ Signed by order, in the name of the Society for Constitutional Information, 
GARROW 2355 “ Took’s Court, “ D. Apams, sec, 
GARROW 2356 16th April, 1793. 
GARROW 2357 Addressed, “ Mr. J. Broughton, secretary to the United Political Societies, Norwich. 
GARROW 2358 Did execute any warrant for the purpose of apprehending Mr. Isaac Saint, at Norwich, the secretary of the Constitutional Society there
GARROW 2360 Did you see any papers seized 
GARROW 2362 Did you put your name upon them 
GARROW 2364 Is this one of the papers you seized there
GARROW 2366 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitu-tional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, 25th October 1793, 
GARROW 2367 “ PRESENT, Mr. Bryant—in the chair, 
GARROW 2368 “ Count Zenobio, Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Sinclair, Mr. Alexander Wills, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. G. Williams, Mr. Balmanno, Mr. Special, Mr. Rutt, Mr. Chatfield, Mr. Ausell, Mr. Wardle, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Harrison, Mr. Martin, Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Margarot, Mr. Hull, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Benjamin Couper, 
GARROW 2369 “ Mr. Sinclair read a letter, with an address from Mr. Skirving secretary to the convention of the Friends of the People in Scotland, to Mr. Hardy, secretary to the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 2370 “ Resolved, That an extraordinary general meeting of this society be called for a next at the Crown and Anchor tavern, at six o’clock in the evening, lity, and propriety of sending delegates to a convention of delegates of the different societies in Great Britain, to be held at Edinburgh, for the purpose of obtaining a parliamentary reform. 
GARROW 2371 “ Resolved, That the substance of the motion be inserted in the letter. " 
GARROW 2372 Before the next entry is read Perhaps it will be convenient that I should put in the original draft of these instructions, as there are several material alterations. 
GARROW 2373 Look at that letter, and state whether that is your signature 
GARROW 2375 The whole of it is in your own hand-writing
GARROW 2377 Look at this other paper, are these the instructions, which were originally prepared for the delegates upon which your entry is afterwards made 
GARROW 2379 is was found among your papers we have heard 
GARROW 2381 What do you take that paper to be
GARROW 2383 Look at it—Do you believe it to be an being transcribed into the book of the society 
GARROW 2385 It was a paper you were afterwards to transcribe into your book
GARROW 2391 Supposing that paper to agree with your fair transcript, should you believe then, that that is the paper which you tsanscribed fairly into the minute? 
GARROW 2447 No, but there was a letter read from Mr. Hardy, which letter was read this morning, accompanying the copy of Margarot’s indictment, and stating that anniversary dinner of the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 2448 “ At a meeting of the Society for Consti‘tutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, 24th January: 1794, : 
GARROW 2449 “ PRESENT, ‘ Mr. John Pearson in the chair, “ Mr. Horne Tooke, count Zenobio, Mr. Frost, Mr. Bonney, ‘rev. Mr. Joyce, Mr. J. WilLams, Mr. Stark, Mr. Banks, Mr. Rutt, Mr. Bonham, Mr. Kydd, captain Gawler, Mr. Wardle, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Jennings, Mr. Watts, Mr. Joho Martin. -“ A-motion was made, that it be dress of the London Corresponding Society, be inserted in the books of this society, and that the King’sspeechtoHisparliament be inserted unpeR 17
GARROW 2451 “ An amendment was moved, ‘ That between the words His and Parliament, the “word Honourable should be inserted.’ 
GARROW 2452 Honourable was withdrawn. ri 
GARROW 2453 “ Another amendment was then moved, ‘ That between the words Hrs and Parliament, ‘the word Faithful should be inserted.’ 
GARROW 2454 “ Faithful was withdrawn. 
GARROW 2455 “ And it was unanimously resolved, ‘ That His, and His only, is the proper epithet for parliament upon the present occasion.’ 
GARROW 2456 “ The resolution then passed unanimously, in its original form, 
GARROW 2457 “ Resolved, That the London Corresponding Society have deserved well of their country. 
GARROW 2458 “ Resolved, That the secretary be ordered to cause forty thousand copies of the address, the speech, and these resolutions, to be printed on one sheet, and pro rly distributed m England, Scotland, and Ireland. 
GARROW 2459 “ Resolved, That these resolutions be published in the newspapers, 
GARROW 2460 “At a meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, 7th of February, 1794, 
GARROW 2461 “ PRESENT, “ Dr. Kentish in the chair, 
GARROW 2462 “ Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Bonney, Mr. Bryant, 
GARROW 2463 Mr. Arthur Blake, Mr. Wills, Mr. S 
GARROW 2464 Mr. Weldon, Mr. G. Williams, Mr. Green, 
GARROW 2465 Mr. J. Pearson, Mr. John Martin, Mr. 
GARROW 2466 Thompson, M. P. Mr. Wardle, Mr. J. 
GARROW 2467 Williams, rev. Mr. Harris, Mr. Parkinson. 
GARROW 2468 “ Ordered, That the resolutions relative to the address of the London Corresponding Society, passed at the meeting on the 24th of January last, be sent to the Edinburgh Gazetteer for insertion. 
GARROW 2469 “ Ordered, That a copy of the said resolutions of the 24th of January, be sent to the secretary of the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 2470 “ At a meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Friday, 7th of March, 1794, 
GARROW 2471 “¢ PRESENT, 
GARROW 2472 “ Mr. Sharpe in the chair, 
GARROW 2473 “ Resolved, That the «most excellent ad-|‘' Mr. Gawler, rev. J. Joyce, Mr. Bonney, 
GARROW 2474 Mr. Blake, Mr. Tooke, Mt. Wills, Mr. G. 
GARROW 2475 Williams, Mr. Satchell, Mr. Wardle, Mr. 
GARROW 2476 Kydd, Mr. Stark, Mr. Hull, Mr. Holcroft, 
GARROW 2477 Mr. Chatfield, Mr. Thompson, Mr. Rutt, 
GARROW 2478 Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Beck, Mr. Banks, 
GARROW 2479 Mr. H. Campbell, Mr. Fawcett. 
GARROW 2480 “ Mr. Tooke gave notice that he would, at the next meeting of this society, move that two books should be opened ; one of them (bound im black) in which shall be entered all the enormities of those who deserve the censure, and, in the other, the merits of those who deserve the gratitude of the society. : At a meeting of the Society for Consti tioval Information, held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, a&th ef March, 1794, PRESENT, 
GARROW 2481 “ Mr. John Pearson in the chair, aMr. H. Tooke, Mr. Bonney, Mr. Hull, Mr. William Sharpe, Mr. Wills, Mr. Wardle, rev. Mr. Joyce, Mr. Kydd, Mr. J. Williams, rev. Dr. Towers, Mr. Thompson, Mr. Scott, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Beck, Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Banks, Mr. Stark, Mr. Moore, Mr. Jennings. Resolved, That an address be sent from this society to Messrs. Muir, Palmer, Skirving, Margarot, and Gerrald. The following address was proposed by Mr. Joyce, to Messrs. Muir, Palmer, Skirving, Margarot, and Gerrald: 
GARROW 2482 G Friends and Fellow Citizens, Although we have hitherto been the silent, yet we have by no means been the unconcerned Bpeeintova of your conduct and sufferings. 
GARROW 2483 Ve have seen and approved of your exertions for your country’s happiness; we have marked, with honest indignation, every step that your enemics have taken to bring you to your present situation
GARROW 2485 he hietory of liberty, for whose sake you ate doomed to a long and unmerited exile, will afford, in the present instance, that consolation that former martyrs to the samc cause have experienced; the consolation that ou will not, you cannot suffer in vain. 
GARROW 2486 “ Mian mray perish, but trath will prevail ; neither persecution, nor banishment, nor death itself, can finally injure the progress of those principles which involve the general pirress of man. 
GARROW 2487 «While, therefore, we join every friend to humanity in lamenting what you have al ready perehi a bare ape a anticipate the’ to which you may exposed in a crea and uncultivated country ; yet we can rejoice, that the sourees of happiness are limited to no place, but are 4s extensive as the dominion of God : under the protection of that Great Being may you, at all times, and in all places, feel the pleasure that arises from conscious integrity. 
GARROW 2488 “ Fellow citizens, we assure you, that the memory of your virtues shall never be effaced from our breasts; the cause for which you have struggled, is a glorious cause; the world that has witnessed your exertions, shall wit ness ours also
GARROW 2490 “Our best wishes will ever attend you; and we do believe that the day is not very distant when we shall again receive you, on British shores, the welcome children of a rxEB and nappPy country. 
GARROW 2491 “ Resolved, That the same be sent to Messrs. Muir, Palmer, Skirving, Margarot, and Gerrald. “ Ordered, That the said address be published in the newspapers. 
GARROW 2492 “Mr. Joyce gave notice, that he would, on Friday next, bring forward a motion relative to the speech of Mr. Dundas, on Tuesday last, respecting the introduction of Scotch law in England. 
GARROW 2493 “ Read a letter from the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 2494 “ Resolved, That the same be entered on the books of this society. 
GARROW 2495 March 97th, 1794. 
GARROW 2496 “ To the Secretary of the Society for Constitutional Information. 
GARROW 2497 “ Citizens, I am directed, by the London Corresponding Society, to transmit the follow. ing resolutions to the Society for Constitutional Information, and to request the sentiments of that society, respecting the importunt measures which the present juncture of atlairs seems to require. 
GARROW 2498 “ The London Corresponding Society conccives, that the moment is arrived when a full and explicit declaration is necessary frgm all the friends of freedom,—Whether the late illegal and unheard-of prosecutions and sentences shall determine us to abandon our cause, or shall excite us to pursue a radical reform, with an ardour proportioned to the magnitude of the object, aad with a zeal as distinguished, on our parts, as the treachery of others, in the same glorious cause, is notorivus. The Society for Constitutional Information is therefore required to determine, whether or no they will be ready, when called upon, to act in conjunction with this and other societies, to obtain a fair representation of the people
GARROW 2500 “Mr. Tooke having left the chair, Re-| thatthe King’sspeechtoHis — par!:-solved, that Mr. Gerrald be called to thebe inserted unpgr rt
GARROW 2502 “Resolved, That the Tweed, though it| of the members of this society, di may divide countries, ought not, and doescontinuance of the present unforts' not, make a separation between those prin-| and that, in perpetuam rei mem. ciples of common severity, in which English-may be printed together, in one -. men and Scotchmen are equally, interested ;Happy conclusion of it; which i, that injustice in Scotland, is injustice in Eng-sion, according to the present land, and that the safety of Englishmen ispearances; we hope and be:. endangered, whenever their brethren, in| many months distant. 
GARROW 2503 Scotland, for a conduct which entitles them| “ An amendment w: to the approbation of all wise, and the supportbetween 'the words His :: of all brave men, are sentenced to Botany‘ word Honourable shoul’ Bay, a punishment hitherto inflicted onlyon| “ Honourable was w:: felons. ef niet amend: 
GARROW 2504 t, but‘ That betweenthe w. 
GARROW 2505 “Resolved, That we see with oad n the we see without fear, that the period is fast‘jthe word. Faithw inf Paithfut was 
GARROW 2506 approaching when the liberties of Britons«7 and Vint ab was ui: 
GARROW 2507 must depend not upon reason, to-which they shave long appealed, nor on'their powers afexpressing it, but on their firm abd undaunted resolution’ to oppose tyranny by the same]. “ means by which it is exercised. a “ Resolved, That we approve of thecon-’ duct of the British Convention, who, th assailed by force, have not been answered ‘ argument, and who, unlike the members fia-.‘ certain assembly, have no interest disti from the common body of the people. st “Resolved, That a copy ofthe above resoations be transmitted ‘to citizen William Skirving, secretary tothe Britisty Con oS who is now imprisoned 'under colour of Jaw in| the Tolbooth of Edinburgh. earn i‘Tow 
GARROW 2508 ‘J. Pearson, Mr. Hodgson, tr. J. Williams, Mr. Savage, fetter from-Mr. Muir, on board, ‘ansport, in answer to tlie address hat the same be entered in 0 society. a pamphlet, containing certain prohe London Corresponding Society, iS society. 
GARROW 2509 ed, That two thousand of the same ied by this society. aclean
GARROW 2511 This is one of the pamphlets ch the last resolution of the Constitutional ety directed to be published, and which yas found in the possession of the secretary 9 that socicty, The letter of the 27th of March 1794 is introductory to this ; that is, a t from the London Corresponding Society the Society for Constitutional Information, with their resolutions enclosed; they have been before. 
GARROW 2513 The Sst thing is the letter, and the resolutions of the orth of March, which have been read. 
GARROW 2514 to this " i meeting called, for eration the il and. fair pears to this will be much ce of co-operapurpose of holdwith such memre ms ol. Se “ Proceedings, &c. of the Society for Cunstid 4 their respective tutional Information. nittees. Society for Constitutional Information, at the committee of London, March 28, 1794. 
GARROW 2515 y appointed by this “aittee for co-operation vith the committees of the secretary be desired to 
GARROW 2516 ‘ne London Corresponding og them with the members 
GARROW 2517 -poilted to confer with them, bat Mr. Joyce be requested to office of secretary of the comes| 
GARROW 2518 “nce. , being present, accepted of the seeting’of the Society for Constituormation, held at the Crown andvavern, Strand, Friday, May 9, 1794, 
GARROW 2519 vivo Present, say Mt. Wardle inthe chair, tl, Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Frost, Mr. 
GARROW 2520 “ The. history ,of you, are doomed: to, a
GARROW 2521 Sition..coisizositicl I-- - i aIflonuONIsOeTPIOW"t so Go 07 “YP fo 690} ape ame i Digitized ry GO Cos it, to 9 of. gil u62..aoisizosition..aoisizosi) a. --3-- 5 only be effectually removed bya full and fair Yepresentation of the Prorrr of Great Britain. The London Corresponding Society cannot but remind their friends, that the present crisis demands all the prudence, unanimity, and vigour, that ever may or can be exerted by Mew and Britons; nor do they doubt, but what manly firmness and constancy will finally, and they believe shortly, TERMINATE in the full accomplishment of all their wishes. I an, fellow citizen (in my humble measure), a friend to the rights of man, (Signed) “ T, Harpy, secretary. 
GARROW 2522 “ Resolved unanimously, 1st, That dear as Justice and Lrsenty are to Britons, yet the value of them is comparatively small, without a dependence on their permanency ; and there can be no security for the continuance of any Right, but in reuat Laws. 
GARROW 2523 “2nd, That equal laws can never be expected, but by a full and fair representation of the people
GARROW 2525 “8rd, That it is the decided opinion of this society, that, to secure ourselves from future iJlegal and scandalous prosecutions, to prevent a rupetition of wicked and unjust sentences, and to recall those wise and wholesome laws that have deen wrested from us, and of which scarcely a'vestige remains ; there ought to be immediately a Convention of the Prorre, by delegates, deputed for that purpose, from the different societies of the Friends of Freedom, assembled in the various parts of this nation. And we pledge ourselves to the public, to pursue ever A al method speedily to accomPlish so desirable a purpose. 
GARROW 2526 “ P. S. I have to inform you, that a general meeting of the society will be holden on Monday, the 14th of April, the place to be announced by public advertisement. 
GARROW 2527 “Resolved, That it is fit and proper, and the duty of this society, to send an answer to the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 2528 “ Ordered, ‘That the secretary acquaint the London Corresponding Society, that we have received their communication, and heartily concur with them in the objects they have in view; and that, for the purpose of a more speedy and effectual co-operation, we invite em to send to this society, next Friday evening, a delegation of some of their memers. 
GARROW 2529 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor-tavern, Strand, Friday, April 4, 1794. 
GARROW 2530 “ Present, “ Mr. Symonds in the chair, Mr. Tooke, Mr. ‘ie Tg Mr. Blake, Mr. Bonney, Mr. Wills, Mr. J, Pearson, Mr. 
GARROW 2531 Joyce, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Wardle, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. W. Sharpe, Mr. Beck, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Banks, Mr. Richter, 
GARROW 2532 “ Read a letter from the committee of the London Corresponding Society, acquainting this society that they had deputed Matthew Moore, John Baxter, John Thelwall, Richard Hodgson, and John Lovett, to hold a com ference with the members of this society. 
GARROW 2533 “ Mr. Moore, Mr. Thelwall, Mr. Hodgson, Mr. Lovett, and Mr. Baxter, attended from the London Corresponding Society. 
GARROW 2534 “ Resolved, That a delegation of five members of this socicty be appointed to meet the members deputed by the London Correspending Society. 
GARROW 2535 “Resolved, That Mr. Sharpe, Mr. Joyce, Mr. Wardle, Mr. Holcroft, and Mr. Kydd, be a deputation to confer with the deputies of the Corresponding poner 
GARROW 2536 “ Resolved, That there be appointed a committee of correspondence of the members of this society. 
GARROW 2537 “ Resolved, That Mr. Joyce, Mr. Bonney, Mr. W. Sharpe, Mr. J. Pearson, Mr. Tooke, and Mr. Wardle, compose the committee. 
GARROW 2538 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown Anchor tavern, Strand, Friday, April 11, 1794, 
GARROW 2539 “ PRESENT, “ Mr. Joyce in the chair, 
GARROW 2540 “Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Tooke, Mr. J. Pearson, Mr. Symonds, Mr. Hull, Mr. Wardle, Mr. Milner, Mr. Kyd, Mr. Wills, Mr. Thelwall, Mr. Scott, Mr. Thompson, Mr. G. Wiliams, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Chatficld, Mr. Beck, Mr. Hardy, rev. Mr. Macewen (Dundee), Mr. Fawcett (Pancrass-lane), Mr. Jennings, Mr. Richter, 
GARROW 2541 “ Mr. Joyce made the report of the meeting of the delegates of the London Corresponding jociety, for the purpose of this society co-operating with the London Carnes poling Society, and that they had come to the following resolutions : 
GARROW 2542 “ 1st, Resolved, That it appears to this committee very desirable that a general meeting or convention of the friends of liberty, should be called for the purpose of taking into consideration the proper methods of obtaining a full and fair representation of the eople. 
GARROW 2543 ond, Resolved, That it is recommended to the Society for Constitutional Information, and the London Corresponding Society, to institute aregular and pressing correspondence with all those parts of the country where such measures may be likely to be Feomotes, not only to instigate the societies already formed, but to endeavour also to produce such other associations as may farther the general object. 
GARROW 2544 “rd, Resolved, That it appears to this committee, that the general object will be much promoted, if : standing committee of co-operation between the two societies were established, forthe porecet holding personal communication with such members of similar societies in other parts of the country ay may occasionally be in London, and who may be authorized by their respective societies to act with such committees. 
GARROW 2545 “ Read the following letter from the secretary to the London Corresponding Society. April 10, 1794. 
GARROW 2546 “ Citizen, I am ordered by the committee of delegates of the London Corresponding Society, to inform the Society for Constitutional Information, that they approve of the resolutions of the committee of conference. 
GARROW 2547 “ Therefore, the London Corresponding Society have chosen Matthew Moore, John Thelwall, John Baxter, Richard Hodgson, and John Lovett, to put in practice immediately the second and third resolutions of that committee. 
GARROW 2548 (Signed) “ Thomas Harpy, sccretary. 
GARROW 2549 “D. Adams, secretary to the Society for Constitutional Information. 
GARROW 2550 “ Resolved, That the report of the committee of delegates from the London Corresponding Society, and of this society, be entered in the books of this society. 
GARROW 2551 “ qst, Resolved, That it appears to this society very desirable, that a general meeting of the friends of liberty should be called, for the purpose of taking into consideration the proper methods of obtaining a full and fair Tepresentation of the people. 
GARROW 2552 “and, Resolved, That it appears to this society, that the general object will be much promoted if a standing committee of co-operation were established, for the purpose of holding personal communication with such members of similar societies in other parts of the country as may occasionally be in London, and who may be authorized by their respective societies to act with committees. 
GARROW 2553 “ 3rd, Resolved, That the committee of correspondence already appointed by this society, be the committee for co-operation and communication with the committees of other societies. 
GARROW 2554 “ Ordered, That the secretary be desired to send a letter to the London Corresponding Society, acquainting them with the members of this society appointed to confer with them. 
GARROW 2555 “ Resolved, That Mr. Joyce be requested to accept of the office of secretary of the com: mittee of correspondence. 
GARROW 2556 “ Mr. Joyce being present, accepted of the said office. 
GARROW 2557 Ata meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor-tavern, Strand, Friday, May 9, 1794, 
GARROW 2558 “ PRESENT, “ Mr. Wardle in the chair, “Mr. Hull, Mr. J. H. Tooke, Mr. Frost, Mr. 
GARROW 2559 W. Sharpe, Mr. J. Pearson, Mr. Hodgson, Mr. Joyce, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Savage, Mr. Chatfield, 
GARROW 2560 “ Read a letter from Mr. Muir, on board the Surprize transport, in answer to the address of this society. 
GARROW 2561 “ Resolved, That the same be entered in the books of the society. 
GARROW 2562 “ Read a pamphlet, containing certain proccedingsof the London Corresponding Socicty, and of this society, 
GARROW 2563 “ Resolved, That two thousand of the same be printed by this society. 
GARROW 2565 This is one of the pamphlets which the last resolution of the Constitutional Socicty directed to be published, and which was found in the possession of the secretary to that socicty. The letter of the 27th of March 1794 is introductory to this; that is, a letter from the London Corresponding Society to the Society for Constitutional Information, with their resolutions enclosed; they have been read hefore. 
GARROW 2567 The First thin and the resolutions of the 27th which have been read. 
GARROW 2568 is the letter, of March, 
GARROW 2569 “ Proceedings, &c. of the Socicty for Cunstitutional Information. Socicty for Constitutional Information, London, March 28, 1794. 
GARROW 2570 “Resolved, That the following address be sent to Messrs. Muir, Palmer, Skirving, Margarot, and Gerrald: 
GARROW 2571 “ Friends and Fellow Citizens, Although we have hitherto been the silent, yet we have by no means been the unconcerned spec tators of your conduct and sufferings. We have seen and approved of your exertions for your country’s -happiness—We have marked with honest indignation, every step that your enemies have taken to bring you to your present situation. Your enemies are the enemies of Pugtrc Liperty, the men who are conspiring against the happiness of mankind. The cause in which you are embarked, and to which you have borne an honvurable testimony, is worthy of every exertion, and its importance to the world too great, to expect its accomplishment without opposition. 
GARROW 2572 he history of liberty, for whose sake you are doomed to a long and ynmerited exile, will afford, in the present instance, that consolation that former martyrs to the same cause have experienced ; the consolation, that you will not, you cannot, suffer in vain. 
GARROW 2573 “ Men may perish, but truth will prevail ; neither persecution, por banishment, nor death itself, can finally injure the progress of those principles which involve the general ppiness of man. 
GARROW 2574 “ While, therefore, we join every friend to humanity in lamenting what you have already endured, and with anxious hearts, anticipate the perils to which you may be exposed in a barren and uncultivated country, yet we can rejoice that the sources of happiness are limited to no place, but are as extensive as the dominion of Gop; under the protection of that Great Brinc, may you at all times, and in all places, feel the pleasure that arises from conscious integrity. 
GARROW 2575 “ Fellow-citizens, we assure you that the memory of your virtues shall never be effaced from our breasts; the cause for which you have struggled, is a glorious cause, the world that has witnessed your exertions, shall witness ours also 
GARROW 2576 “A full and fair representation of the people of Great Britain, we seek with all the ardour of men and Britons, for the sake of which we are not only ready to act with vigour and unanimity, but we trust, prepared also to suffer with consluncy. 
GARROW 2577 “ Qur best wisires will ever attend you, and we do believe that the day is not very distant, when we shall again receive you on the British shores, the welcome children of a Free and Hapey Country. By Order of the Society. 
GARROW 2578 o the Chairman of the Society for Constitutional Information. “ Surprise Transport, April 16, 1794. 
GARROW 2579 Fellow Citizens; I have long since looked upon your society with admiration and esteem, considering it as the source and school of most of the political information, which, by the blessing of God, has overspread the island. I have been instructed by the wisdom of your papers, and animated by the spirit of your addresses. That my conduct is epproved by such a society, is my pride and my joy. “ You say (es the consideration is the eupport of my life), that the history of liberty will prove by the experience of her former martyrs, that sufferings in her cause cannot be en vain, That my sufferings may not be in wain, I ardently wish that the eyes of my countrymen were open, not: only to the illegality and despotism of my sentence, but to the alarming measures ty which it was brought about. My jury was three times packed by the servants of the crown before tt vet upon me. In the first instance by the sheriff's deputy, placemen immediately apinted by the crown; in the second, by the erownagent, ford advocate, ec, at Edinburgh; 
GARROW 2580 and in the third, by the justiciary lords, who tried thecause. These last, arbitrarily appoint the fitteen particular persons who are to sit upon the accused. The strongest objections are mere air, as the lords alone are the judges of the validity of them. A majority of the fifteen condemns. If, therefore, ministry, with theig all-extensive influence, can in three countries find only eight servile tools subservient to their views, the fortune, the liberties, the lives of all Scotland are at their mercy. Trial is condemnation. ‘The sentence is appointed hefore-hend by the mipister, and mine was known a full week at Edinburgh before it was uttered. They can tuin, or even murder whom please. This infamous robbery of the first right of Englishmen, a trial by jury fairly chosen, I have endeavoured to set forth in a letter to the editor of the Morning Chronicle, last October or November, of the date (if I remember rightly) of the 22nd or 27th, of which I now avow myself the author, to which I beg leave to draw the attention of the Suciety for Constitutional Information. Farewell, tellowcitizens
GARROW 2582 “ Surprize Transport, Spithead, April 17, 1794 
GARROW 2583 “ Mr. President, Permit me, si, to assure you, and the respectable Constitutional Society, that the very consoling uddress, re ceived agreeably to their resolutiun of the 28th ult. has excited in me, as also in the hearts of each of my fellow martyrs, for the important cause of universal suffrage, end annual parliaments, the most lively sensations of gratitude and esteem. The Constituttopal Society was the foremost of true patriots to raise the Standard of Reform, for the purpose of redeeming from the contaminating and contagious influence of corruption, those venerable, but almost lost principles of the British constitution, Wrought into it by the blood and irresistible energies of our fore fathers, many of whom, rather than that these principles, upon which depend the virtue and felicity of Society should be lost sight of, exhibited their high esteem of them on scaffolds and in dungeons; that all, even the most callous spectators might be persuaded, that the truths for which they did not reckon even their lives too dear a sacrifice, were surely worthy of the unprejudiced inves tigation of all. Your remark therefore is just, and it is very soothing to us, “ We do not, we cannot suffer fur such cause in votn. The resentment of our enemies, driving them into such absurd measures towards men, against whom vice of any kind is not evea alleged, must have moved in every unprejudiced mind, the restless question; Why? Why are men who seek the improvement of their species thrown with felens into dungeons? And full information must follow sincere inquiry, and at length convert all to the side of truth and righteousness. I therdfore cheerfully consent to suffer to promote the general good. 
GARROW 2584 “We are blamed as baving yremabsecly, at least, exposed ourselves to the necessity of sealing by our sufferings, the cause we would promote. If in this case we have erred, I will readily take the whole blame, as having strained every nerve to press forward the measure of a general convention, as being the only means to avert impending ruin. I sought to erouse and alarm my countrymen to consider their extreme danger. I feared that the necessity for such association would be on ws before we were prepared for it. Besides, what measure could possibly interest so much the public inquiry? what has so much increased public information? It excited counter associations, and caused every man to see who were on the side of truth, and who were on the side of corruption: t exposed the selfish and interested designs of the one, and the unfeigned proseeution of the public good by the other.Ispeak so with the greater eonfidence before a Society that must have marked the progress of information eo long under their own auspices. You must know that this progress, the exciting the inquiry of the public, has been more extensively effected during the last year, then during the ten preceding ones. The eause was the General Convention. The terror and hatred of mimistry to it proves the truth. Whe then would have refused even his life to have been instrumental in promoting so much good ? 
GARROW 2585 “Your explicit approbation of our conduct has prompted this self-exultation; forgive therefore my freedom. I may be mistaken. The important revolution in human affairs, to which every Chrietian looks with anxious hope, may be yet distant. If it is, tyranny may still triumph. But God forbid it. It would then be better to die than to live. But though I hope the reverse, I know, as you justly observe, ‘ That the importance of the cause of freedom is too great to the world, “to expect its accomplishment without oppo“ sition,’ and the opposition of despairing tyranny will be dreadful, it will be destructive; and why
GARROW 2587 hearts, of interests, of measures, WHICH HAVE BEEN SOLEMNLY RESOLVED. By so doing, you will escape the destruction which is coming on all the earth, 
GARROW 2588 Cement byTeciprocal kind communications, the union of} 
GARROW 2589 “ Worthy citizens, I will solace my mind, when drooping, with the kind assurance which you have vouchsafed by your masterly address, that I, with my brethren, have a place in your affection and prayers; aud I will believe with you, ‘ that the day is not very distant, when you will again receive us on British shores, the welcome children of a he and happy people.’ When indeed it shall demonstrated, ‘ hat our enemies are the “ enemies of public liberty ; the men who conspi“red against the happiness of mankind. But thoygh the gig are combined, though they should so far prevail as to scatter utterly in their vain apprehension the friends of truth, the Fine re of it which are already established, is the ‘ stone cut out without hands, and shall become a great mountain, ‘and fill the whole earth, for he who first commanded the light to shine out of darkness, is its almighty patron, 
GARROW 2590 “ Be assured, my dear brethren, that I have already realized the pleasures of conscious integrity, and can reflect with the sincerest satisfaction, that I was influenced in all my exertions for the cause of reform, by that benevolence which I would ever cultivate as ed principle of every kind of humaa excelnce. 
GARROW 2591 “ With sentiments of the most unfeigned esteem and respect, I am your sincere wellwisher, “ W. Bxravine. The President of the London 
GARROW 2592 Constitutional Society. 
GARROW 2593 “ Surprize Transport, April 24th, 1794. “ To the members of the Society for Constitutional Information, in London. “ That the spirit of Freedom is not extinuished, but still retains its former energy, in A fiance of the artifices and of the violence of despotism, is an object of high coi jon to my mind. Engaged in the sacred ceuse of man, individual man is an atom of little value; and in speaking of himself, when he recollects and contemplates the principles of his conduct, should disdain to make use of the term suffering. Wishout a vain affection, for myself, 1 disclaim the assumption of exdogrdiost merit. The man who has acted in obedience to the law of his own conscience, has simply discharged his duty ; and the contrary supposition would involve him in guj). I am deeply persuaded, that many of the men, whomnow address in a situation less cjrcumscribed, with abilities more powerful, but not with hearts more honest, after bering atchieved what I could sot accomplish, woul with the same cilent scorn have regarded each feeble attempt to shackle and to repress the freeborn mind. 
GARROW 2594 “ Your preceding exertions, in attempting to procure a fair representation of the people in parliament have been meritorious. They are a solemn and sure pledge of their future continuation. fn openey to the number, and 49 the rapidity of those tremendous scenes, which daily in succession pass before the eye; All, All of them deriving their existence from this violation of our constitutional rights, let your ardour in procuring a rectification of what is wrong be increased. Confident you will obtain the blessing of that Being, whose great design is the happiness of his creation. HomMas Muir. 
GARROW 2595 “It being recommended at a former meeting, to the members of the Society ror Coy
GARROW 2596 STITUTIONAL INFORMATION, tO peruse two, printed sermons of the rev. J. H. Williams, preached on the public fasts of 1793 and 1794, as productions of singular worth, the pociely came to the following unanimous resolution :, “ London, April 25th, 1794. “Resolved, That the grateful thanks of this society be paid to the rev. J. H. Wituiams, Vicar of Wells-Bourn, Warwickshire, for the publication of his two inestimable sermons on the public fasts of April 1793, and ments which they contain are in perfect unison with the principles of this society; and we trust that the motives and springs of action which he recommends, will ever be found to direct our conduct
GARROW 2598 “ D. ApaMs, secretary. 
GARROW 2599 “ Society for Constitutional Information, & May 2nd, 1794. 
GARROW 2600 “ This being the anniversary of the society, upwards of three hundred persons dined together at the Crown and Anchor-tavern, in the Strand. 
GARROW 2601 “JOHN WHARTON, M. P. in the chair. “ STEWARDS, 
GARROW 2602 .Thompson,M.P. John Williams, 
GARROW 2603 John Chatfield, John Pearson, 
GARROW 2604 J.BellendenGawler Arthur Blake, 
GARROW 2605 Robert Knight, William Sharp, 
GARROW 2606 G. Wingfield Spar- Thomas Wardle, row, Charles Goring, 
GARROW 2607 Jeremiah Joyce, John Bonham. 
GARROW 2608 “During the time of dinner, and between the foasts, a numerous band played the popular tunes of Ca Ira, the Carmagnol, the Marsellois March, the Democrat, and a new piece of music, called the ‘ Free Consritu“ Tron.’ 
GARROW 2609 “ After dinner the following sentiments were given with unbounded applause : 
GARROW 2610 “1, THE RIGHTS OF MAN. 
GARROW 2611 “2. A Free Constitution. 
GARROW 2612 “3, The Swine of England, the Rabble of Scotland, and the Wretches of Ireland. 
GARROW 2613 “ 4, Equal Laws and Liberty. 
GARROW 2614 “5, May Despotism be trodden under the Hoofs. of the Swinish Multitude. 
GARROW 2615 “6. THE ARMIES CONTENDING FOR LIBERTY. 
GARROW 2616 “7, Wisdom, Firmness, and Unanimity to all the Patriotic Societies in Great Britain, 
GARROW 2617 “8, To the reign of Peace and Liberty. 
GARROW 2618 “A citizen then rose, and in a short speech observed, that the Stewards seemed to have pace in their list of toasts, a person who had done more than almost any man towards the Reign of Peace and Liberty; he would, therefore, propose asa toast “ lord Stanhope. An amendment was proposed, that instead of Lord Stanhope, Citizen Stanhope should be drank, which was received with thundering applause. 9, May the Public Revenue never be applied to the purposes of corruption. 
GARROW 2619 “10. The Victims to the cause of Liberty suffering under the sentences of the Court of Justiciary. 
GARROW 2620 “11. Archibald Hamilton Rowan, and the Patriots of Ireland. 
GARROW 2621 “ 12. The persecuted Patriots of England. 
GARROW 2622 “18. MAY THE ABETTORS OF THE PRESENT WAR BE ITS VICTIMS. 
GARROW 2623 “ 14. The Chairman, and success to bis exertions in the cause of Freedom. 
GARROW 2624 “Mr. Wharton thanked the company for their marked approbation of his conduct, and pledged himself to continue ‘his efforts in the cause of Liberty. He then said he would propose as a toast, 
GARROW 2625 “15, That steady Friend to Liberty, John Horne Tooke. 
GARROW 2626 “ Mr. Tooke said, he hoped it would be the last time that his health should be drank. His ambition was, that hereafter Ais mEmonY should be given. 
GARROW 2627 “16. MAY ALL GOVERNMENTS BB THOSE OF THE LAWS, AND ALL LAWS THOSE OF THE PEOPLE. 
GARROW 2628 “17, Thomas Paine. 
GARROW 2629 “ The Chairman then gave as a concluding toast, a sentiment directly in opposition to that of Mr. Windham. 
GARROW 2630 “ 18. Prosperity to the commerce and manufactures of Great Britain. 
GARROW 2631 There follow several so: which are stated to have been sung at the dinner, I do not desire them to be read, but have not the smallest objection to their being read, if Mr. Erskine wishes it. 
GARROW 3384 I must beg to object to that question; it is for the jury, what this may i suspected was behind the curtain, 
GARROW 3480 You reside at Sheffield, I believe
GARROW 3482 What are you by business 
GARROW 3484 Were you a member of any society at Sheffield, which had the name of the Constie tutional Society 
GARROW 3486 At what time did you become a member of it
GARROW 3488 Were you one of twelve of that society which were afterwards associated with the Constitutional Society of London 
GARROW 3490 That is not the question that I put to you ; I ask, whether at any time you became an associated member of a society in London, called the Constitutional Society 
GARROW 3492 I did not ask you whether you were of not, but whether you were one of the twelve of the Sheffield Society who were associated with the Constitutional Society in London
GARROW 3494 I will explain the question to you: your society at Sheffield were more numerous than twelve
GARROW 3496 And when you were more numerous than twelve, the Constitutional Society in London were written to by your society—do you agree so far with me
GARROW 3498 Did your society, when you wrote to the other society, port any names of persons to be associated with the society in London
GARROW 3500 bia you know whether you, or any other persons of the Sheffield Society, were received as associated members of the Constitutional Society in London
GARROW 3502 Do I understand you right, that you do recollect such a prepeson moving from your society to the London Society 
GARROW 3504 Proposing such a measure
GARROW 3506 Did I understand you right, that one of the modes by which that acting in conjunction was to be brought about, was, that a certain number of your society should be associated with the London Constitutional Society, for the purposes of general conjunctive acting 
GARROW 3508 Did you at any time act as a secretary to the society at Shetlield
GARROW 3510 Was that the five months last before you were apprehended 
GARROW 3512 When were you apprehended 
GARROW 3514 Be so good as tell us for what purpose your Constitutional Society were assembled, and what the professed object of their assembling was 
GARROW 3516 By what means was that reform fo be effected 
GARROW 3518 people of the necessity of a reform, that they might unitedly move for it in the best and most unexceptionable mode. 
GARROW 3519 Was there any peculiar mode by which the election of meant to the House of Commons was to be effected, according to your proposition as to the right of voting
GARROW 3521 Are you acquainted with the expression— universal suffrage 
GARROW 3523 Was it or not the scheme of the Constitutional Society at Sheffield, that a reform was to be produced by universal sutfrage
GARROW 3525 Was the circumstance of the Edinburgh Convention known to the Constitutional Society at Sheffield —They sent a delegate, and therefore certainly they must know it. 
GARROW 3526 Who was their delegate at the convention at Edinburgh 
GARROW 3528 Do you know a person of the name of. Veucy Yorke
GARROW 3530 Perhaps you know him by another name
GARROW 3532 What is it
GARROW 3534 And who likewise goes by the name. of Yorke 
GARROW 3536 Did Yorke or Redhead ever reside at Shefficld 
GARROW 3538 Did he reside there for any time 
GARROW 3540 Do you know a person of the name of Gale, a printer at Shefficld
GARROW 3542 Mr. Yorke was not a settled inhabitant of Sheffield, was he 
GARROW 3544 Did he attend the meetings of the Constitutional Society at Sheffield
GARROW 3546 As he was not a settled inhabitant of Shef-field, in what character did Mr. Yorke, during his last visit, attend regularly the weekly Meetings of the society !—They, considering him as a man of considerable abilities, and as an orator, paid great respect to him, and he used to attend constantly onee a week at the meeting which was called the committce ; but jt was not properly acommittee, for the time of the expiration of the committee which was before, was clapsed, and another was not chose, and such persons who had been on the committee were admitted principally on ac count of Mr. Yorke being at Shefheld. 
GARROW 3547 You have given me a guod reason why he should be treated with respect when he was there; that he was a man of talents and an orator; but I ask in what character he came there 
GARROW 3549 You never heard from himself then in what character he came there 
GARROW 3551 But being there, you discovered be had great talents, and was an orator 
GARROW 3553 Did he take any part in the management of the business of the society 
GARROW 3555 Do you speak now of the weekly mectings, which were improperly called committees
GARROW 3557 Where were these mectings held 2—At my house. 
GARROW 3558 You had a commodious room there probably 
GARROW 3560 The meeting was improperly called a committee, when they met in a small room 
GARROW 3562 How often was the other room used
GARROW 3564 Was there in that room any preparation for the more commodious exercise of the talents of oratory of Mr. Yorke
GARROW 3566 What 
GARROW 3568 What was that called, that we may have 3 name to put down in our notes
GARROW 3570 What did you call it, for instance
GARROW 3572 What was the more general name for it ip the society 
GARROW 3574 And from this tribune Mr. Yorke addressed the society 
GARROW 3576 Besides those meetings, improperly called committees, and those meetings in which the tribune was, do you remember any meeting upon the Castle-hill
GARROW 3578 Was that of the date of the 7th of April 
GARROW 3580 Was Mr. Yorke there 
GARROW 3582 Did he there exercise himself in addressing the people 
GARROW 3584 In what sort of manner and Janguage 
GARROW 3586 Did that unfortunate fatality upon this occasion occur, that he did go farther than in your judgment he ought
GARROW 3588 First answer my question ; did it appear to you that his address that had Locke’s book for its text, was more violent, and went farther than it ought 
GARROW 3590 It was settled, you said, that you were todo something—settled by whom
GARROW 3592 At one of the committees 
GARROW 3594 For what purpose were you to make that motion as it was settled 
GARROW 3596 Was it settled at the committee before-hand then, that a motion should be made that it might be over-ruled 
GARROW 3598 id you make the motion as it had been agreed 
GARROW 3600 What was done upon your making that motion
GARROW 3602 Whom was it objected to by; who was the atiecior 
GARROW 3604 “You mean there were only four of the committee that attended
GARROW 3606 There was an elevation then upon the Castle-hill
GARROW 3608 Then one of these persons opposed your motion 
GARROW 3610 What number of persons might there be assembled at this meeting 
GARROW 3612 A meeting in the open air 
GARROW 3614 And then one of these persons opposed your motion, as it had been agreed, for the introduction of another 
GARROW 3616 What was the substance of that other motion
GARROW 3618 Drawn up by whom 
GARROW 3620 Was it before or after the meeting in the open air, that it was drawn up
GARROW 3622 Then it was left at your house for signa.’ tures 
GARROW 3624 Upon the occasion of the introducing this amendment upon your proposition, did Mr. Yorke address the meeting, composed, as you say, of some thousands 
GARROW 3626 Do you remember a day or two after the ineeting upon the Castle-hill, being in company with Gale and Yorke at your house,’ when any application was made to Yorke upon the subject of the speech he had delivered to the people upon the Castle-hill; do you re-' member any application to him a day or two afterwards, upon the subject of printing his’ speech
GARROW 3628 Did he agrce to print his speech
GARROW 3630 Was it printed 
GARROW 3632 Did you see it afterwards in print 
GARROW 3634 From having heard it upon the Castle-hill, could you form an opinion, whether the printed copy which you saw afterwards, was a pretty accurate statement of what passed 
GARROW 3636 Was that publistied at Sheffield
GARROW 3638 Do you believe this to be one of those publicationsIshowing it to the witness]
GARROW 3640 Did you receive afterwards from Yorke, any number of these pamphlets for any purpose
GARROW 3642 Did you do any thing with them by the direction of Yorke 
GARROW 3644 Do you mean the general meeting, or the private meeting 
GARROW 3646 Did you, in consequence, make up any packets of them, and do you believe these to be two of the packets [showing them to the witness]
GARROW 3648 How many might you direct in that manner in separate packages
GARROW 3650 What was done with these, after you had made them up separately, and addressed them to the different persons 
GARROW 3652 to whom were they sent!—To the best of my recollection they were sent to Thomas dy. 
GARROW 3653 What was your situation in life before you were applied to to become the secretary of this society 
GARROW 3655 Were you working at your business
GARROW 3657 Were you applied to to become the secretary, or did you apply for it
GARROW 3659 By whom 
GARROW 3661 What was your inducement to take that office upon you
GARROW 3663 What induced you to do it?7—The war destroyed my business. 
GARROW 3664 Am J to understand that you did it to increase your means of support ‘—I did. 
GARROW 3665 Did it come to your knowledge, in your character as a member of the society, or atherwise, that there were any preparations of arms of any sort at Sheffield 
GARROW 3667 Did you in the society, or from the members of the society, bear of any proposition for: 
GARROW 3668 providing arms, or that any were 1n preparation 
GARROW 3670 Eapisis that
GARROW 3672 T should be happy to see that advertisement, with what was said at this meeting, which ioe published in the Sheffield paper the week after. 
GARROW 3673 Was this hand-bill distributed previous to the meeting upon the Castle-hill
GARROW 3675 Was the subject of procuring arms publicly discussed or in the private meetings of the society 
GARROW 3677 A meeting in your large room 
GARROW 3679 A public meeting of the society 
GARROW 3681 By the society only
GARROW 3683 How did they come? were they introduced by memhers
GARROW 3685 Then members introduced visitors 
GARROW 3687 Did you see any arms, or any model of any 
GARROW 3689 Whatsort of arms were they that were talked of, as fit to be had for the pugposes stated
GARROW 3691 I do not know whether you heard any thing of the night-cats 
GARROW 3693 Now we will have an account of the manner in which children play at Sheffield, what sort of an instrument was it
GARROW 3697 Ithad four cross points? 
GARROW 3698 Juryman.—Were there only four of these
GARROW 3700 So that if you threw it down it always presented a point
GARROW 3702 How long is that point
GARROW 3704 Only made just to show what the sort of thing was
GARROW 3706 Was there any other purpose for which these instruments were spoken of in the so ciety to be made, except playing with them as children 
GARROW 3708 Where did you see the model 
GARROW 3710 Was he a member of the society 
GARROW 3712 Who produced it at his house 
GARROW 3714 Had you ever seen such a thing before
GARROW 3716 You neturally were led to ask its use and the purpose for which it was to be constructed, What was stated to be the purpose of this play thing
GARROW 3718 Was that act of throwing it on the floor, and of course its presenting one of its points a companied by no description of the use it might be applied to, besides playing with it
GARROW 3720 When talking of a play thing one is not serious; now, serious or not, what was said of it 
GARROW 3722 What was said, serious or not serious, as to the use to which that might or could or was intended to be applied
GARROW 3724 Was it called by any name
GARROW 3726 A night Cat, or day Cat, or any thing of that kind 
GARROW 3728 Was there any conversation at that time when it was thrown upon the floor about Cavalry 
GARROW 3730 You said just now that the conversation, such as it was, might not be serious
GARROW 3732 Where was it that there was conversation about the town of Newcastle 
GARROW 3734 Upon your oath were you never present when that model was produced, and when there was a conversation about Newcastle 
GARROW 3736 Then you never heard any conversation at Sheffield about this night-cat or this model of a night-cat with respect to cavalry 
GARROW 3738 Now that trifling, pleasing, desultory, irregular conversation I want to have—I am sure I cannot reccllect it; if I could recollect it I would. 
GARROW 3739 ‘Try, do not hurry yourself —I cannot recollect any thing that was said, only his taking it out of his pocket, showing it us, and throwing it on the floor; there was no regular conversation, no debate whatever about it. 
GARROW 3740 And the nature of the desultory observations that were made you do not recollect 
GARROW 3742 Et was a thing that you had never seen any thing like before 
GARROW 3744 You contented yourself with seeing it thrown down, and looking at one of its points
GARROW 3746 You tokl me that at the meetings at the Castle-hill, Mr. Yorke, though in general warm and energetic, and disposed to say strong things, did not say any hing that was detrimental to the cunstitutional law of England, were you present at any other meeting where his speeches were not quite of that character 
GARROW 3748 Perhaps those might be meetings of the society only 
GARROW 3750 But with visitors admitted, be so good as tell us the tendency of his discourses when he rather gave himself liberty, when he followed the impulse of his nature? —If I had noted them down, I might have been able to have repeated them. 
GARROW 3751 I do not expect you should give us them in his manner or precise words, but give us the substance and effect of those expressions which appeared to you to be unguarded 
GARROW 3753 Endeavour to recollect —I may have heard him when conversing in those meetings, sometimes he was very warm to be sure, and might drop unguarded expressions. 
GARROW 3754 Such as what unguarded expressions 
GARROW 3756 Jjoved, he might step out of the way. 
GARROW 3757 What expressions did he use which appeared to you to be unguarded 
GARROW 3759 Who were we 
GARROW 3761 How many were the people present with whom Mr. Yorke was to come up rather than to submit to the degraded state in which the people of England were
GARROW 3763 Was this at one of the meetings of the s0ciety 
GARROW 3765 One of the general meetings 
GARROW 3767 Composed of members of the society and of others
GARROW 3771  Was that after you had heard any thing upon the subject of arming
GARROW 3773 Was that delivered from the tribune? Delivered from the place which was sometimes called so, and sometimes called a pulpit. 
GARROW 3774 It was from the orator’s elevation that this speech was delivered 
GARROW 3776 Perhaps having brought that to your memory may enable you to recollect some other accompanying expressions 
GARROW 3778 What was it that occasioned any sensation of pain in you at that declaration of Mr. Yorke
GARROW 3780 And therefore you felt pain at that declaration of Mr. Yorke
GARROW 3782 Now, either at that or any other of these meetings, do you recollect any of these expressions of Mr. Yorke—I do not recollect any expressions that so struck me as that. Ido not know whether you have seen this paper before? [showing the witncss a printed paper]—I never saw this, but I saw one from which this was taken. 
GARROW 3783 Have you seen a pamphlet of which you believe that to be one copy 2—Yes. 
GARROW 3784 Look at this [showing the witness another pines pamphlet,“ the fast-day as observed at heffield ] have you seen that before 
GARROW 3786 Do you remember the circumstance of a proclamation for a general fast to be held the 8th February, 1794 
GARROW 3788 In what manner was that fast observed upon the Castle-hill at Sheffield 
GARROW 3790 Where was it
GARROW 3792 In the open air 
GARROW 3794 Were you there
GARROW 3796 What number of persons do you think might be assembled for the purpose of observing that fast
GARROW 3800 With this addition, that the printed paper in my hand was found in the prisoner’s possession. 
GARROW 3833  Look at these pamphlets (the fast-day as observed at Sheffield, and a serious lecture), where did you find them
GARROW 3835  After the serious lecture was read, there was ahymn prepared I believe 
GARROW 3837 Who prepared that hymn 
GARROW 3839 Who composed it
GARROW 3841 That was sung in full chorus by the whole assembly 
GARROW 3843 By whose order were these two pamphlets printed and published 
GARROW 3845 By whose order, and at whose expense i— They were sold. 
GARROW 3846 But there is an expense incurred, in print ing and publishing before the sale reimburses
GARROW 3848 Who ordered it to be printed 
GARROW 3850 Who. furnished the copy to Gale
GARROW 3852 Who read the lecture
GARROW 3854 Do you know of any proceedings of the society, of the committee, or of Yorke, respectig pang and publishing these two pamphlets 
GARROW 3856 Were they in general distributed through the town of Sheffield 
GARROW 3858 Do you know of your own knowledge whether the sale was extensive or not
GARROW 3860 There is a prayer, who composed that, do you know 
GARROW 3862 Whom was that delivered by? —By myself. 
GARROW 3863 From notes, or extempore 
GARROW 3865 You had written it, and committed it to memory, perhaps 
GARROW 3867 What became of the copy 
GARROW 3869 By whose directions
GARROW 3871 A private meeting of what 
GARROW 3873 Tell me, if you know their names, John Paine, of Newhill
GARROW 3875 Was hea member of the society 
GARROW 3877 It is in evidence, that he was one of those sent up by their secretary to the London society. 
GARROW 3878 You know Joseph Gale 
GARROW 3880 He was a member
GARROW 3882 And Joseph Smith 
GARROW 3884 And David Martin 
GARROW 3886 It is not worth while going through the names; they were sent up to the Constitutional Society, to be affiliated with them, which is proof that they were members. 
GARROW 3887 Extracts read from a printed pamphlet, intituled, “ Proceedings of the Public Mecting, held at Sheffield, in the open air, on the 7th of April, 1794 ; and also an “ Address to the British Nation, being an Exposition of the Motives which have determined the Pcople of Sheffield to petition the House of Commons no more on the Subject of Parliamentary Reform. Printed for the Sheffield Constitutional Society. 
GARROW 3888 “ Proceedings of the Public Meeting. 
GARROW 3889 “ In pursuance of a public advertisement, a alge meeting of the Friends of Justice, Lierty, and Humanity, was held, at three o'clock on Monday, the 7th of April, 1794, on the Castle-hill, in Sheffield, to consider upon the propriety of addressing the king, in behalf of the persecuted patriots, citizeas Muir, Palof again petitioning the House of Commons for a reform in the representation of the people, and to determine upon the propriety of peutioning the king, for the total and unquaified abolition of negro slavery. 
GARROW 3890 “ Notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather (very severe rains having fallen until within a quarter of an hour of the appointed time of mecting), from ten‘to twelve thousand people were assembled on the occasion: 
GARROW 3891 “HENRY YORKE having been voted to the Chair, he business was ‘opened by reading the following Address to the king, in behalf of the suffering patriots : 
GARROW 3892 “ TO THE KING. 
GARROW 3893 “ An Address from the Inhabitants of the Town and Neighbourhood of Sheffield, in the County of York. 
GARROW 3894 “ Sirnzr; We, the undersigned, being warm friends of liberty and the rights of man, feel ourselves deeply affected by the sentences which have lately been passed in your majesty’s courts of Scotland, upon citizens Muir, Palmer, Skirving, Margarot, and Gerrald. 
GARROW 3895 ‘Had these ‘men been really guilty of crimes, their punisliment should doubtless have been proportionate to their offences ; but, so far from considering it as a crime for a man to use every constitutional means in his power to effect a reform in the Commons House of Parliament, we think that every man who thus exerts himself, deserves well of his country; since we are persuaded that nothing short of the accomplishment of such a reform will restore peace and happiness to our present aggrieved and injured nation. 
GARROW 3896 “ We trusted also, that your majesty entertained the same opinion with us of such exalted conduct, from your majesty’s having chosen for your most confidential servants in the state, men who had singularly distinguished themselves by their patriotic exertions in the cause of parliamentary reform : 
GARROW 3897 “ But the friends of these sufterers having brought their case before parliament, without producing the desired effect—the principal of these very servants of your majesty having opposed the measure with all his corrupt, but irresistible influence—seeing no other resource, we approach your majesty in this address, to intreat your majesty to interfere in behalf of these (whom we deem) innocent men, with that power which the British constitution has placed in your majesty, of pardoning whom your majesty pleases—a privilege which is sometimes graciously extended even to real and palpable criminals. 
GARROW 3898 “Let it not be recorded in the history of this country, that king George 3rd, or any of his judges, transported men for fourteen years, because they had dared to speak the same words upon a speculative subject, which, if they were not the immediate means of adwancing his majesty’s then prime minister toobedience to it could result solely from mohis high situation, caused his election to be ; tives of fear. That liberty of opinien could remarkably popular: let it not be said, thatnot be denied to any free country, without men of education, of refined sentiments, ofdenying at the same time the rights of the the most virtuous and benevolent characters, peuple. That nothing argued more strongly were severed from their dearest connexions, ; against a government than the uniform pe and plunged into dungeuns with thieves andsign of depriving the people of this liberty ; prostitutes: letit not be said, that fathers worethat it was a proof that something went torn from their wives and children, and sonswrong ; and that even governors were from their aged parents, because they had the ashamed of their conduct, when the right of virtue openly to condemn the acknowledgeddiscussion was violated, or put an end to. corruptions of government, and to exert every The civil liberty we enjoyed in our eountry peaceable means in their power to remove was the effect of political discussion ; amd its them: let it not be said, that it was as great political liberty would have long since been a crime to speak the rruta, as to be guilty restored and secured, if our rulers had not of FELONY. 
GARROW 3899 “ But rather, O king, let it be recorded, : that George 3rd had the wisdom, the huma-' 
GARROW 3900 nity, and the justice, to step in betwixt these severe and cruel sentences and their execution. 
GARROW 3901 hese are our desires—these our plain sentiments. We know they are such as your majesty is unaccustomed to hear; but, if they are supported by truth and reason, suffer not the homeliness of our manner to offend your majesty. We are plain men, and will not flatter a king. If our wishes be attended to, we are persuaded it will, in some good degree, hush the murmurs which unreasonable severity in a government never fails to excite; and it may also avert that storm, which it is but too evident has long been awfully gathering, and which may burst forth in a moment when your majesty thinks not. 
GARROW 3902 “ The address being read, and received with repeated applauses, Hrnry Yorkr addressed the meeting in support of the measure. He observed, that the cause for which our countrymen were now suffering, was the same as had been advocated in the year 1783, by Mr. Pitt, the duke of Richmond, and other men, who were at this time pensioners and placemen under the actual government; that a convention, for the purpose of obtaining a 
GARROW 3903 Pasaeinen tary reform, had been held at the hatched House Tavern, in which these men went as delegates, or acted as assistants ; that ’ 
GARROW 3904 it was cruel, if not unjust, to punish men for following the example which those in power had set them. ‘The question was not a question of convenience, but of right
GARROW 3906 rst, iving a power of decisiun to j stich the ancieat lars of the land did aed knowledge: secondly, by confounding the truth with the fact of publication: and, ‘thirdly, by having punished with the utmost severity libels in private cases, to prepare the public mind for those severe sentences in public ones, -which dishonoured and irritated the nation. It had been lately the fashion to confound government with the constitution, and the ministry with the government. Tooppose, therefore, the mad and wild, if not criminal schemes of administration, was to Oppose government, and, by this mode of reasoning, to oppose government was to be an enemy to the constitution. A govemment can never give a more authentic proof of its propension to tyranny, and of the impropriety, as well as impolicy of its measures, ‘than by restraining or Prbidding the liberty of discussing publicly matters of legisiation and policy. It is debasing the character of man, as an intellectual being, to deny him the right of inquiring into that which even governors allow was made for his use, namely, government. 
GARROW 3907 “Yo punish inquiry, severity is exercised for imaginary guilt. But what is the effect? Mischiet is prolific: violence in government begets resentment in the people, who murmur and exclaim: government is provoked, and studies vengeance. When one act of vengeance is exposed, more always follow. Af-fection is lost on both sides, and, what is worse, is irrecoverable. Hatred begins; and the government and the people being at variance, consider each other no longer as magistrate and subject, but as mutual enemies. Hience the inhuman wish of Caligula, that he could murder all the people at one blow. The sequel is in order: he is continually destroying them; they are continually wishing him destroyed. Such conduct had the fa tendency of cramping the genius of men, andof replunging the nation into a state of bar-barism with regard to their religion, ther Jaws, their morals, and their government, andto keep them ignorant of the most important concerns in their trade, their splendour, theirfelicity ; whilst all the nations around themeee improving themeclves in morals and policy, by the dering efforts and concurrence of enlightened men, whose views were directed to those objects alone which were really worth their attention. The reasoning of a vernment, which prohibits information, is fective in every parti 3 its progress is not to be stopped, nor even to be checked, without mannii disadvantage. Prohibition has no other effect than to irritate men; to inspire them with an idea of insurrection, and to giveto all their writings a libellous tendency, Severe and arbitrary sentences may intimidate, but they cannot conzince a nation. It is by reason and argument alone, opposed to apparent reason end apparent argument, that a mment can hope to be victorious over ite-internal enemies, or render itself permanent by the quiet and conscientious concurrence of all its citizens. It is doing too much honeur to innocent subjects to be alarmed at a few pages of writing, or at a few fugitive orations, when barracks are erected in a country, and 60,000 armed nvercenaries are ready to execute the mandates of government. Experience had proved, that the rigorous prosecutions which had lately taken place throughout England, and that the cruel sentences which had disgraced the capital of Scotland, had not answered the purpose of establishing arbitrary power, and of crushing the rebellion of honest minds. Although there is no spirit so erect and independent as not to be broken hy the long continuance ofthe silent and inglorious sufferings of a gaol; yet it had been found, that men were proud to step forward in this most stormy season, when. such terrible examples of legal vengeance had been held up hefore them, to plead the ancient rights oe their country, to unmask the infamy, intrigue, and murderous projects of administration, and, according to : the principles of the purest benevolence, toassert the liberty of the whole human race.‘The present times bore a strong and marked ! resemblance to those terrific ages when priestsheld their dominion over the minds and consciences of men, and when they endeavouredto establish the reign of intolerance and orthodoxy amidst flakes of fire, and streams of human blood. All history had evinced, that every attempt to curb and bridle the expansion of the human mind had been inettectual; it had evinced, that opinions, though smothered for a time, burst forth with redoubled fury, and were victorious over power; it had evinced the triumph of reason and truth over prejudice and superstition, and that liberty, whether of opinion or person, however slow in its progress, had uniformly moved forward towards its destined goal; and that even, at this moment, the interruptions which had been opposed to it in our own country, although they might be imjurious to individuals, would finally obtain, confirm, and establish the rights of the people. Conscious of their uprightness, the friends of freedom had persevered in their noble cause, unappalled by the influence of spies and informers, and by the threats of a corrupt, a crazy, and wicked administration. 
GARROW 3908 In so doing, they had acted in perfect conformity to the principles of virtue, without which no man could be a friend to his country, anda lover of mankind. Its essence consisted in the regulation of oue conduct by such moral axioms as are best calculated to promote the general happiness of our fellowcreatures; and as it frequently happened, that the happiness of the tndividual stood in direct opposition to that of the public, it is the perfection of virtue in individuals to sacrifice their own happiness to that of the public. A man, in possession of this virtuous principle, feels delight whilst actually buming in the brazen bull of Phalaris; and such, he trusted, was the actuating principle of those generous patriots, who are become willing victims of the most barbarous and savage sentences that ever had been pronounced in 
GARROW 3909 Britain; who had made a glorious stand aguinst arbitrary power, and who broke loose trom the fondest endearments of human life, in the hope of redeeming their lost country from the fangs of a dark and brooding prejudice, and fron the horrors and turpitude of an igneminious slavery. 
GARROW 3910 t was the tyranny of the British government which drove William Pena, with the Pelscophie people called Quakers, to the deectable regions of Pennsyivania, where, by toleration, industry, and permanent credit, they revived the simplicity of the primitive ages of society. It was the same tyranny which has driven into voluntaay exile, or forced by law into banishment, the most virtuous of men, the first of philosophers, the most exalted and courageous band of patriots that ever honoured the soil of Britain. Among the former Joseph Priestley, one of the most profound philosophers of the age, and most meek au amiuble of citizens, claims the sad pre-eminence ; and among the latter, stand the names of those persecuted patriots, in whose behalf we are pow about to address the exccutive magistrate of our country—a noble and a generous band, whose sufferings do not claim our pity, because they boil up our rage; whose sentences disgraced those who pronounced them, not those on whom they were pronounced; whose condition is enviable, because honourable, and to the whole of whose opinions and conduct, no good man, or honest citizen, can give one dissentient voice! In times like these, when a man is mocked and insulted, because he bears the name of a patriot, an epithet once honoured by the people of England; at a time when those who have the courage and magnanimity not to flatter their country, are deserted, betrayed, and persecuted, what honours are sufficient for oe ve thunder truth against tyranny? What disgrace ought not to aout ose. ted beings, those re tize patriots, who keep aloof from the scene of action, and riot on their country’s wrongs? When our nation shall be regenerated, thesepersecuted nen will wear civic crowns. In the political, as in the moral world, the friend who appears to soothe our distresses, excites our esteem; and he who, in calamitous times that try men’s souls, sacrifices interest, friends, and home, iv order to save his sinking country, merits well, not only of every Briton, but of all maukind, and even of the government under which he lives. 
GARROW 3911 “ Fellow Citizens, the day is at length arrived, when fanaticism and superstition, deprived of their tinsel trappings, and exposed, in their native ugliness, to the view of mankind, slink scowling back to the cave of obscurity; there I hope they will for ever remain. The energy of Englishmen will no longer endure this strange uproar of injustice. I trust my countrymen are sick of religious and political imposture ; and that their decisive and manly conduct will command, in an imperious tone which will take no denial, not a melioration of these enormous abuses, which would be to compromise with injustice; but I trust they will demand the annihilation of corruptions and abuses, and a restitution of the original rights of human nature. I ask of our governors, this pe question, is itbetter that the people should be in a constant state of stupidity, than that they should be sometimes turbulent
GARROW 3913  need not invite you, fellow citizens, to feel for any human being who suffers, much less need I solicit your approof of the present measure, after the general testimony of satisfaction you have given of it. You are too enlightened to need the aid of any instruction from me, and your understandings are too much amakened to require that your passions should be played upon. Whilst the unerring tribunal of posterity shall condemn with scorn and derision, with execration and disgust, those inbuman beings who have been the causes of such unexampled and inhuman severity, our persecuted brethren will obtain a verdict of honour and glory. I may venture to say, that beloved by the present age, future ae shall heap around their monuments trophies of undying fame; and an exasperated and repentant people, shall enroll their names in the volume of history, which records also the names of Sidney, Hampden and Locke! 
GARROW 3914 “ The following Resolutions were then read three times over, and with the exception of one or two persons, were unanimously adopted : 
GARROW 3915 “1, That the people, being the true and only souree of government, the Seetoca of speaking and writing upon any subject, can not be denied to the ineribers 8 a vernment, without offering the grassest insult to the majesty of the people. 
GARROW 3916 “g, That therefore the condemnation of citizens Muir, Palmer, Skirving, Margarot, and Gerrald, to transportation, for exposing the corruptions of the British government, was an act better suited to the maxims of a despotic than a free government. 
GARROW 3917 “ 3, That the address which has now beer read, be presented to the king, in behalf of the above persecuted patriots. 
GARROW 3918 “ On the second resolution being proposed, an hiss'was heard from different parts of the meeting, in consequence of one or two persons holding up their hats against it; on obe serving which, H. Yorke thus ad the meeting: 
GARROW 3919 “ Fellow Citizens; As your chairman I call you to order. As an individual, I must observe, that this hissing is repugnant to the principle of toleration or freedom, which we wish to see established. We have this moment read, and given our assent to, an address to the king in favour of liberty of opinion ; let it not be said, that we are the first to violate thatliberty in others, which we claim for ourselves. Opinions will always vary, even amongst the wisest and bestot men. Weare bound, therefore, to show tenderness to the opinions of others, and compassion even to their prejudices. Let our enemies see that we consecrate by our example, what we desire to see established as a principle. Hisses do not convince; they tend only to irritate the minds, and to beget the ill-will of our fellow citizens: let us, on the contrary, confront them with the weapons of reason and truth, the onl logic of liberal minds. Every thing whic! has a tendency to stir up the passions without awakening the understanding is unbecoming of freemen, or of men who would be free. 
GARROW 3920 “ These well-timed observations had the good effect of preventing any further signs of Intolerance; and the utmost decorum pre
GARROW 3921 ‘vailed throughout the conduct of the business, 
GARROW 3922 “ It was next moved, ‘ that a petition be presented to the House of Commons, for a reform in the representation of the people in parliament ;’ but so marked was the disaps probation pre by the whole meeting to this Measure, that not one single person seconded the motion; but a most profound silence, interrupted only by a few murmurs, was observed: upon which, Henry Yorke again rose, and addressed the meeting in an animated speech of an hour long, and of which it is impossible for us to give our readers a just conception. He took a general view of the British constitution, and stated its most prominent defects; among which the want of a perfect natienal representation was the most laring. He dwelt a considerable time upon is subject, and then proceeded to take a rapid survey of the exertions which had been made at different periods, and by different persons, to promote the cause of parliamentary teform. 
GARROW 3923 “ He observed that the subject was become a mere bugbear, employed to deceive the peole, and worked upon as an engine to raise into power, needy and ambitious men: that the very same men who in opposition had declared that it was the only measure of saving the country from ruin, were the first to reprobate and scout the measure of reform when they were in power, From the corruptions of the British government, parties had been generated, which in their route to power, had convulsed and plundered the empire. Under the distinctions of names, principles had been forgotten; and for the sake of leaders, whom the people had foolishly idolized, the machine of government rolled on amidst the feuds and contentions of party. Eternally the peace of our country had been distarbell by the rancour and animosities of factions, and the people, instead of turning themselves to correct the gross evils which existed in it, had ever been the tools of base and designing men, and seemed prepared to whet and sharpen their swords one against another. 
GARROW 3924 “It was now high time that the people should lay asideleaders, discard, factionsand act 
GARROW 3925 Sor themselves. He strongly inforced these principles, and then pa into a complete detail of the ancient constitution as established by Alfred, which he proved to be at this time totally defaced, if not lost. He then pursued the gradual decline of popular liberty in EngJand, from the anarchy which was the consequence of Danish and Norman invasion; and taking a general sketch of our history, so far as it was connected with the subject of popular representation, he made some strong and pointed remarks on the Revolution in 1688, the object of which, he said, was not, could not be answered, unless annual parliaments and ee sufirage were restored. For this he the authority of lord Sommers, who drew up the declaration of rights, and who was promoted by William 3rd for his popular exertions at that memorable epoch. 
GARROW 3926 “ In order to prove that the Revolution had not corresponded with the expectations of the people, no sooner was the prince of Orange established on the throne of England, than all ideas of the ancient mode of annual parliaments were effaced, and the TRIENNIAL ACT was passed in the very face of that revolution, and in direct contradiction to its principles; for the revolution, at least so far as it respected the people, was not intended to be a compromise between the king and the aristocracy, for the joint inheritance of the people, but to establish on unequivocal principles the right of the people to govern themselves, and to recall those delegated powers which they had entrusted to their servants for this purpose, when they were either abused, or neglecte to exercise them. If the revolution were not a revolution for the people, it was no revolution at all, but a conspiracy of a few ennobled oppressors against the liberties and happiness ofthe many. Butif it were designed to comprehend the people, and its end has been perverted, or purposely laid aside, the people are not warranted in petitioning, but are justified in demanding as a Right, agreeably to the tone of language used in the declaration of rights, the restitution of annual parliaments, and the establishment of universal suffrage. But the shock which was given to the stability of these principles, was most infamously flagrant, by the enacting of the sEPTENNIAL act, in the reign of George 1st. If the act of parliament in the reign of Henry 6th, erased from the roll of citizenship some of the best members of the community; the enacting of the triennial and septennial acts, filled up to the brim the measure of governmental iniquity, and poured forth the waters of bitterness throughout our land. 
GARROW 3927 “Frtrow Citizens; Enough of precedent. The human race has long been rolling down the tide of ages neglected, unpitied, an oppressed. It is Tigh time that the devious course of human policy should not be left to the uncertain issue of storms and of elemental wars; but that the machine of state should be guided by the polar star of reason alone, which is never seen but when the majesty of the people is resplendent. What is beneficial in the example of ages, we ought to reserve with caution. What is injurious, and what is only tolerably competent to answer the common purposes of society, ought to be abolished. We insult ourselves, when we abjectly distrust the powers which nature has given us; nor ought we passively to acquiesce in institutions whic, though injurious, may be preferable to those that may be endured by others. We insult ourselves, when we foolishly balance between tolerable vices and positive good ; between unnatural systems, and Novel, untried, but just maxims. ‘The human mind is progressive, so is the social mind. That the one therefore should remain stationary, amid the rapid course of the other towards perfection, is a prejudice as unnatural as it is injurious to the happiness of man. The governments of Europe present no delectable symmetry to the contemplation of the philosopher, no enjoyment to the satisfaction of the citizen. A vast, deformed and cheerless structure, the frightful abortion of haste and usurpation, presents to the eye of the beholder no systematic arrangement, no harmonious organization of society. Chance, haste, faction, tyranny, massacre, and the hot, inclement action of human passions, have begotten them. Utility never has been the end of their institution, but partial interest has been its fruit. Such abominable and absurd forms, such jarring and dissonant principles, which chance has scattered over the earth, cry aloud for something more natural, more pure, and more calculated to promote the happiness of mankind. Experience must regulate the mechanism of government, by which I mcan not a narrow and confined, but a liberal and enlightened experience, which, hearing without passion or prejudice, the testimony of ages and nations, collects from it general principles, to further the progress of civilization. It is in history that we are to dive for those rich materials of legislative experiment, which are to ameliorate the social order, and repair those breaches which injustice has long since made. But if this experience be found inadequate to the purpose of alleviating human miseries ; if it afford nothing but the melancholy prospect of outradespotism; of excessive vices on the pert of the governing, and debasement and vassallage on that of the ed; if it ascribe the commeotions of sufiering countries to the designs of factions, asd not to principles; if it show, that in consequence of national ignorance, after the first ebullitions of revolt, they have sat down in a torpid calm, and borne with usurpations stili heavier than those by which they were roused te arms—it must be ted that this experience is important; use it teaches the suffering nations of the present day, in what manner to prepare their combustible ingredients, and humanists in what mamner to enkindle them, so as to produce, with effect, that grand political explosion, which, at the same time that it buries despotiam, already convulsive and agonising, in rains, may raise up the people to the dignity and sublime grandeur of freedom. 
GARROW 3928 e effect this just and useful purpose, reselution. of sentineng must precede revolution of government and manners. The popular energies must be excited, thas the popular voice may befeltandheard. The people must grow wise, im order that the people may rule. It is said we preach anarchy, but what is anarchy but: the establishment. of confusion on the wreck of popular opinion? It is said we are levelless; bus those are levcllers who would. wish to seduce man to the condition of the brute, guided by passion, and wninfuenced. by reason. Those are levellers whose hands are dipped in the public spoils; who assert inxpusity fer crimes, and inviolahility of persona ; who would make humanity take a retrograde motion; who would paisy the arm of justice, and defeat the endof equal laws. bape have ever disclaimed the foolish idea of levelling property ; because our own pyu i the fruit of our laboar, or of our fet en wae by the examale, be exposed to the invasion of the first mtrudes. It were well, if those who confound justice with crimes, would consider that the poor man's property, little as it is, is as precious to him, as is the wealthy stock of the rich man. It were well, if fecling the force of this principle, the aristocracy would unite with us in the cguse in which we are embarked. Property, they say, iseaered—Is not then the property of the poor man as sacred as that of the rich; and ought it to be filched or forced from him without his consent, any move than that ef the rich man? Can these ; who do not respect the property of otbers, expect others to respect their property? We wish to exail, not te level. We wish to better the condition of the wretched; to equalize men under the influence of law; but te give to merit, industry, talents, patrimony, virtee, their proper weight and correspendent dignity in the social order. Are we then ungoivernable, because we rcjeet mis-government? Are we ungrateful, because we defend cur liberty and property against those who ought to respect them? Are we rebels in manmtaining our violated laws against those whe ase open rebels to laws, and who set themselves above those laws which they ought to have venerated? I know, that in all ages of the world, people who would not be oppressed have been reckoned ungovernable by mea who are, or who would be oppressurs. I know that the enemies of oppression have always becn stigmatized as enemies of goverament. I knew that it is seditious to blame the excesses of power, and insolent to mentioa the insolence of those who abuse power. I know that it is sedition to distinguish between public right and public wrong, between government and tyranny. Nor is it enough to acknowledge all good government to be irresistible ; but the worst, and the abuse of the dest, must be irresistible also. I know that to complaia of tyranny is faction, and to ; throw it off rebedlion; but they who oppress are the greatest Rebeds, and for the oppressed to tusn upon them, is but to resist Rebellion— it is but to do a just and nateral action. Whoever violates the laws of reason, equity, and nature, whatever station or name he may bear, is a Rebel, subject to laws against tyrants and rebellion. ‘Tyrants, theretore, and oppressors, are the highest and most consummate rebels in the world—capital traitors to God and Man, and punishable by all the laws of God and Man. Amid all the absordities and chimeras of paganism, it was never believed that tyranny was warranted by heaven. It was never believed that the bloody Caligula was the vicegerent of God, and that the worst of men had a commission from heaven to oppress the human race. It was never believed that murder, rapine, and misrule, were government; and that lawless and bloody crowned robbers, were governors divinely appointed. It was never believed that society had no remedy against devouring lust the raging sword, which were destroying all the ends of society, and even society itself Such indignitics 
GARROW 3929 God and man were never broached by pagans;attempt be made to wrest what remains of they never propagated doctrines which would have turned men into idcots, destitute of reflection and fecling; into beasts of burthen and beasts of sacrifice; turned heaven into hell; human society into a chaos of blood and carcases; and the earth into a place of torments. It never entered into the heart of a Greek or a Roman, nor into any heart that felt the sentiments of virtue and humanity, that it was unlawful to defend nature; a crime to ward off murder, barbarity, and desolation; and an impiety to do the most godlike action which can be done on this side heaven, that of disarming tyrants, and of saving our country from perishing. Government is doubtless a sacred thing, and justly claims our reverence and duty; Sut when government is general oppression; when havoc, spoil, and persecution prevail, to the destruction of all who do well; when law and justice are banished, and military despotism triumphs; when property is attacked and seized without the consent of its owner, and lives are wantonly destroyed ! —is this government too? If it be, tell me what is not government? I do not think, in an age like this, that the people of this, or any country, can ever be so sunk or deadened by oppression, but that repeated provocation will raise a spirit amongst them capable of accomplishing the greatest projects. Even the most professed and degraded slaves, the people of Turkey, often rouse themselves, and casting thcir proud rider to the earth, trample him to death. A little spark often kindles a great flame, and a flame soon spreads to a conilagration. An ignorant mation roused to assert its liberties, will be mad and furious; for when men are used like beasts, they will act like beasts! But when an enlightened people, knowIng their rights, are reduced to a state of degradation, they will know thattheir condition cannot be worse, but, by their own efforts, their condition must be Better. An ignorant people, incited by repeated injury to shake off the load of injustice, will risk unseen evils and calamities—will risk even a civil war to be revenged on their oppressors. Such was the temper of the Romans upon the revolt of Sacrovir—they even exulted in it, and in hatred to Tiberius, wished success to the public enemy. — Such were the injured people of Spain, who, when the Romans came, joyfully received them as their deliverers from the tyrannous yoke of Carthage. But an enlightened people will never sully the victories of patriotism by such irregular conduct Revenge will never be adopted as aa principle nour, and they will glory in awaiting the slow process of universal information, as a prelude to universal emancipation, rather than tarnish the career of liberty, by involving their country in scenes of terror, waste and depredation. Oppressed nature will, at a proper season, depart from passive principle ; and should an liberty from us, I trust all men will concur to vindicate their violated rights—tor, if the lived be suffered once, it will be often repeated. A few repetitions create a habit, and habit will claim prescription and right. For governors to be omnipotent, the race of man must be extinct; and no argument for destroying anarchy can be used, but what is full as strong for the overthrow of tyranny. It is difficult to restore public affairs, when once disconcerted, to their former steady principle—numbers will engage in the cors tuption, and will try every art and power to support it, and they will continue to do so, until nature, which is always uppermost in Man, signs their tragical doom ! 
GARROW 3930 “ Citizens, I repeat my former assertion. Go on as you hitherto have done, in the cul
GARROW 3931 Peace will actuate their demea-. 
GARROW 3932 ture of reason, Disseminate throughout the ; whole of your country, that knowledge which is so necessary to man’s happiness, and which you have yourselves acquired. Teach your j children and your countrymen the sacred lessons of virtue, which are the foundations of all human polity. Teach them to respect themselves, and to love their country. Teach them to do unto all men as they would that they should do unto them, and thcir love shall ; not be confined to their country, but shall ex tend to the whole human race. When sucha revolution of sentiment shall have dispersed the mists of prejudice ; when by the incessant thunderings from the press, the meanest cot-tager of our country shall be enlightened, and the sun of reason shall shine in its fullest meridian over us; then the commanding voice of the whole people shall recommend the five hundred and fifty-eight gentlemen in St. Stephen’s Chapel, to go about their business. 
GARROW 3933 “ The following Resolutions were next read, and unanimously approved of, amidst the loudest applauses. 
GARROW 3934 “4, Thatin every country where the people have no share in their government, taxation is ae 
GARROW 3935 “ 5, That therefore a government is tyrannical or free, in proportion as the people are equally, or unequally, represented. 
GARROW 3936 “6. Convinced of this truth, it is the opinion of this meeting, that the people ought to demand as a right, and not petition as afavour, for universal representation, 
GARROW 3937 “7, That therefore we will petition the TJouse of Commons no more on this subject. 
GARROW 3938 “ An Address to the British Nation. “Friends and Countrymen; We have heard this day decided, with the exception of only one dissentient voice, that the House of 
GARROW 3939 Commons shall never again be petitioned by us, on the subject of parliamentary reform. 
GARROW 3940 “ We owe to the nation, to posterity, even to foreign countries, and to the government 
GARROW 3941 Itself under which we live, an exposition of our motives. To the nation we owe this duty, because we are of opinion, that THE WILL OF THE MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE, SHOULD BE, AT ALL TIMES, THE SUPREME LAW; and that if the few dissent from the opinion of the many, however obligatory the will of the majority may be to them as arule of action, yet opinion is always free and sacred, the right of man to enjoy, and the conscientious duty of man to diffuse. Under the full conviction of this principle, we feel ourselves, at present, the mimority, because we are the first to agitate the question, and to repel the monstrous idea of Pentontng when our petitions are not received by the House of Commons. But, we are numerous—we are many thousands; and as nothing opens the eyes of men so much as their interests, we demand, fellow-citizens, way, we are entitled to it from our numbers, that you lend an attentive ear to the truths we are about to utter, and tothe reclamations we are about to make in favour of oppressed humanity. 
GARROW 3942 “ Our petition was received with the utmost indignation by the House of Commons ; which was no more than we expected. We knew that the homely truths we uttered, would be very unwelcome guests in that house. We never expected that a body in which there were so many placemen and pensioners, would listen to the palpable facts stated in that petition; the object of which was to root out injustice, and to curb licentiousness and corruption. Nevertheless, as we were called upon by our countrymen to unite with them, we ;thonght ourselves bound to comply with their wishes, And, although our petition was disdainfully rejected, because not couched in language sufficiently polite and respectful for the five hundred and fifty-eight gentlemen who sit at the House of Commons, yet, believe us, FELLOW-CITIZENS, we are still of opinion, that the matter it contained, was not only just and Proper, but we think, that even the language, which gave so much offence to the honourable &entlemen, was much too polite and too moderate for us. For, if the House of Commons were the real representatives of the people, we certainly had a right to dictate, and not to petition, because they could be considered in no other light than as the organs of the public will. And, if they refused to obey that will, they would be usurpers, and not representatives. If, on the contrary, they are not the representatives of the people, what have we to do with them? If they are not our representatives, we cannot be their constituents ; and to petition those who are not our representatives as our representatives, would be a manifest absurdity, if not’ an insult and mockery of ourselves, However, the petition, such as it was, being termed disrespectful, was thrown out bya majority of 79, there being 29 only who voted for its being received, and 108 who voted against it, Such imperious treatment rather gives warning than strikes terror. The abuse of representation can never come in the place of a rule, for no legal power can be derived from injury or injustice. On this ground alone, therefore, we are justified in preserving a sullen silence m respect to the House of Commons. For, if grievances, abuses, complaints, and truth, are to be discarded from that House, because not dressed in a gentleman-like language, how are we, plain mechanics, ever to obtain redress, who are not gentlemen, and who are, consequently, ignorant of those polite and courtly expressions which are necessary to gain a hearing in that House. We are ignorant of the art of displaying truth by halves, and, as we love plain dealing ourselves, we detest hypocrisy in others, and pity those who would wish us to follow their cxample. We said to the House of Commons, we are wronged and aggrieved—will you right us, and redress our grievances, or will you not? If you will, we shall be satisfied; if you will not, we shall seek redress some other way. This is the sole question with us, and we put it, as we thought, in a most becoming style to the House of Commons. But, our petition bei scouted, we shall trouble them no more wit! our coarse and unmannerly language. It will be our duty to proceed, as we have uniformly done hitherto, in enlightening the public mind; and, when a complete revolution of sentiment shall take place (as will shortly be the case) in our country, we shall open our mouths, in that key we think most agreeable to ourselves; and our voice, together with that of our disfranchised countrymen, will resemble, perhaps, the thunderings from Mount Sinai! 
GARROW 3943 “ Yes, countrymen, we demand equality of rights, in which is included equality of representation, without which terror is law, and the obligations of justice are weakened ; because, unsanctioned by the sacred voice of 
GARROW 3944 }the people. We are not speaking of that visionary equality of property, the practical assertion oF biel weld vetolate the world, and replunge it into the darkest and wildest barbarism ; but that equality we claim, is to make the slave a man, the man a citizen, and the citizen an imtegral part of the state; to make him a joint sovereign, and not a subject; to oblige law, which ought to be an emanation from the general will, to shed its influence, without distinction, over the heads of all, and to restrain or strike the wealthy poses equally with the more homely otender. We onto give rights to him who has none, and a country to San who wants one. We wish to upset the idol of injustice, which has poured forth, from its exalted throne, a deluge of sorrow, and flooded the world with the tears and the blood of its inhabitants. We desire to see wisdom demanding of miserable millions their wants, humanity at hand to supply them. We de sire to see the sanctuary of virtue erected, and the standard of liberty planted in our land, around which the people may rally as to an holy of holies. In short, we desire to see the altar of equality blazing in Britain, whose streams of fire, whilst they shall shock, convulse, and tear down the rotten pillars of prejudices; whilst they shall consume tyrants, and terrify public delinquents, shall pierce into the hearts of the whole people, and confirm the wide empire of morals on the wreck of superstition and vice. Such is our equality, and such is the equality which we proudly gratulate our countrymen, will shortly be established in Britain, and which we invite pou PEOPLE OF SCOTLAND, to partake of
GARROW 4003 I could wish to ascertain whether I have taken you correctly; you meant, and as far as you understand, your society meant to produce a reform of the representation of the people in the Commons House of parliament y peaceable means 
GARROW 4005 but you apprehended, that when you should depute your delegates to a convention, that you trusted to that convention, and that what might then be done you could not answer for, not being able to answer for the wickedness of individuals—Did I take you correctly 
GARROW 4007 For the purpose of obtaining this desirable object of a parliamentary reform, you say you corresponded not only with the Constitutional Society, but with other societies ; and among them, you have named a society called, a society of the. Friends of the People 
GARROW 4009 Do you know the answer which that society returned to your’s as early as the 26th of May 
GARROW 4011 Perhaps I may assist your memory, by reminding you of the reply of your secretary to that society 
GARROW 4013 Da you know a person of the name of Ashton
GARROW 4015 You have said that your object, and, as far as you know, theobject of your society, was, to obtain a reform by peaceable means, and by enlightening the public—I ask you, if you do not know, that upon the society of the Friends of the People returning some answer to your society, that your society wrote, by means of Ashton, your secretary, disclaiming any farther communication with the society of the Friends of the People, as unfit for your purpose 
GARROW 4017 Was the measure ofdiscarding this society of the Friends of the People, as unfit for your purposes, discussed in your committees 
GARROW 4019 Was it discussed in any mecting of the divisions 
GARROW 4021 Wasit in any meetings 
GARROW 4023 That answer won’t suit me—I ask, whether in any meetings of your society, the propriety of having nothing farther to do with this society, the Friends of the People, because they would not go the lengths that made them fit for your communication, was ever discussed
GARROW 4025 Was the result of that discussion commun cated to your associated society, the Constitutional Society, that this society, the Friends ofthe People, whatever they professed to do, were not'fit persons for your having any thing more to do with them 
GARROW 4027 Idonot ask you, whether you know that such a letter was received, or whether you know that such a letter was sent; but I ask you, if the result of your deliberation was not, that they were unfit for your society, thatthe Constitutional Society might be so informed 
GARROW 4029 Do yourecollect whether Mr. Yorke took any part in that discussion 
GARROW 4031 Who were the parties 
GARROW 4033 Have you read the declarations published by that society, called the Friends of the People : doubtless you have, for your information; or if you have not read them yourself, have they been read in your society 
GARROW 4035 Do you not know that in language, to which to be sure I can do no justice, they declared their firm intention, by all constitutional and proper means, to produce that very thing which you state to have been your object, a reform in the representation of the Commons House of parliament 
GARROW 4037 However, they had made those professions 
GARROW 4039 But that you did not quite believe. Was this, think you, as early asthe 26th of May, 1792, that you disclaimed these Friends of the People 
GARROW 4041 And that was long before Mr. Yorke came among you upon his last mission 
GARROW 4043 But the object was calling upon the people of Sheffield to arm against foreign invaders and domestic enemies
GARROW 4045 Tet us see that we quite understand one another, Did you adopt that hand-bill, and arm in consequence of it, or were you alarmed atits being prodigiously unconstitutional, and arm against it 
GARROW 4047 But the society 
GARROW 4049 Was thatto arm against the invasion of foreign enemies, or protect yourselves against attack from domestic enemies
GARROW 4051 Your society, after this hand-bill, calling upon people to arm against foreign invaders and domestic enemies, took that hand-bill as their text, commenting upon it, adopting their resolution, and arming themselves
GARROW 4053 Your reason for doing this was, that you were afraid of illegal force being used against you, as had been done at Manchester and at Birmingham. Did you apply to any magistrate for protection 
GARROW 4055 Give me the facts first, and the comment afterwards. Did you apply to any magistrate informing him, that you, who were peaceable persons, had been threatened with attacks, and wanted the protection of the civil power
GARROW 4057 Tam not capable of arguing with you; I say that unaffectedly. Did you apply to any magistrate, informing him, that any peaceable persons had been threatened with attacks, and wanted the protection of the civil power
GARROW 4059 But, on the contrary, you published resolutions for arming 
GARROW 4061 You had no intention at all of altering the overnment, but of applying to the House of Ee crus to redress the grievances, under which the people suffered 
GARROW 4063 How early was it that you came to resolutions in your society to petition the House of Commons no more; for that these 558 persons were too fine gentlemen for you; and you were not used to the cuurtly language that would suit their ears 
GARROW 4065 And you, who were too rough for the House of Commons, were courtly enough to i? these resolutions which were proposed y Yorke and Gale, two of the active meimbers of the society, You say the society winked at them 
GARROW 4067 However, pass them you did
GARROW 4069 The next step was to form a convention, and by the delegates to procure a full, fair, and equal representation by means of the convention 
GARROW 4071 About the slave-trade 
GARROW 4073 Whether this was a part of these resolutions which passed upon the subject of arming seo That the landing of Hessian troops in this country, a ferocious and unprincipled horde of butchers, without consent of parlia
GARROW 4074 “ FAST DAY, as observed at SHEFFIELD. 
GARROW 4075 ment, has a suspicious and alarming appear-“ A Serious Lecture, delivered at Snxrriety, ance, is contrary to the spirit of our constitution, and deserving of the marked indignation of every Englishman Was that one of the resolutions that you passed at the time of adopting the resolution about thehand-bill 
GARROW 4077 Was that long after the hand-bill
GARROW 4079 hat it is high time to be upon our guard, since these armed monsters may in a moment be let loose upon us, and pesboularty as the erection of barracks throughout the kingdom may only have been an introductory measure to the filling them with foreign mercenaries —Was that one of the resolutions you passed long before the hand-bill Sometime before ; I do not know exactly how long. 
GARROW 4080 Be so good as to tell me, as you were toarm at Sheffield, very properly as I agree with you, for the sake of preventing attacks upon you, whether you communicated to any other parts of the kingdom the sort of instruments with which you meant to arm yourselves, and your plan of arming
GARROW 4082 Do you mean to say, that you do not now know that your society communicated plans for arming, the mode of procuring the instruments, and the models of the weapons 
GARROW 4084 Then if Davison, in the name of the society, sent any such letter to London, you were not in that secret 
GARROW 4086 You know Davison very well
GARROW 4088 He was a member of the society 
GARROW 4090 You have told me, there was no man at Shefficld mad enough to think of altering the percronient by force at all. Do you include avison in the number 
GARROW 4092 Doubtless there may. Do you include Davison in the number of those who you say are uot to be found in Sheffield, with any bad intention against his majesty, or the government of the country 
GARROW 4094 That is not an answer to my question
GARROW 4514 But you said it was not said to the Court. 
GARROW 5073 Have you been for any time a member of the London Corresponding Society 
GARROW 5075 What April do you speak of 
GARROW 5077 Did you become a member, in consequence of any communication between you and any magistrate of the country 
GARROW 5079 Had you communicated with any magistrate of the country, before you communicated with the society 
GARROW 5081 Who was the person that first introduced you to the society 
GARROW 5083 Did you make application to him first, or he to you
GARROW 5085 What led you to go to Ilillier to make that inquiry 
GARROW 5087 Publications of what nature 
GARROW 5089 What business did Hillier carry on 
GARROW 5091 From that you thought it likely he was a member of the society, likely to give you information, there being some man you wanted toinquire about
GARROW 5093 When did you first make your application to Hillier
GARROW 5095 For what purpose did you become a member of the Corresponding Society
GARROW 5097 What passed between you and the magistrate is not evidence, but in consequence of what passed between you and him, why did you attend the meeting
GARROW 5099 You have stated that you communicated something upon the subject, to Mr. Wickham 
GARROW 5101 Was it with his approbation that you attended the meeting for the purpose you have Dow stated
GARROW 5103 Did you from time to time communicate to Mr. Wickham such facts as came to your knowledge 
GARROW 5105 And went there for the express’ purpose of Procuring information, and giving it
GARROW 5107 When were you first introduced 
GARROW 5109 At what division 
GARROW 5111 Meeting at what place 
GARROW 5113 Did Hillier introduce you 
GARROW 5115 What number of persons were present at tbat meeting 
GARROW 5117 Did any thing material pass at that meeting
GARROW 5119 Had the meeting then at Chalk Farm taken lace 
GARROW 5121 What passed with respect to the meeting which had been had at Chalk Farm
GARROW 5123 Do you mean that they were heated with liquor 
GARROW 5125 Do you recollect any of those resolutions 
GARROW 5127 That were stated to have occurred there, you were not there 
GARROW 5129 Then you were there before you became a member 
GARROW 5131 State any circumstances that occurred at Chalk Farm, particularly such as were mentioned in this meeting of the division the night after
GARROW 5133 Upon Birks’s shouting was any observation made by any persons present at Chalk Farm
GARROW 5135 Do you remember Mr. Thelwall being there
GARROW 5137 Did that person take any part in the conversation and debate that was going forward
GARROW 5139 Do you recollect any particular expression that struck you that he made use of?. thing that Mr. Dundas had threatened to bring the Scotch laws into England, and if they attempted it, they must repel force by force, or something of that sort. 
GARROW 5140 Do you recollect what particular subject respecting the Scotch laws was the subject of conversation 
GARROW 5142 What was the expression used
GARROW 5144 Do you recollect the remainder of that sentence 
GARROW 5147 Was there any direction as to the printing any number of copies of the proccedings of the day 
GARROW 5149 Which was the next meeting of the division that you were at afterwards
GARROW 5151 Where was that
GARROW 5153 What division was that
GARROW 5155 Did any thing matecial pass at that time
GARROW 5157 Where was he at that time, and what was the purpose for which he was to be relieved?was no particular purpose stated, only he was recommended for relief. 
GARROW 5158 Did you go with Hillier next day to see doctor Hodson
GARROW 5160 Where did you go to
GARROW 5162 Did Hillier go with you
GARROW 5164 Was there any gther person there besides doctor Hodson 
GARROW 5166 Hillier was likewise there 
GARROW 5168 Be so good as tell us what the nature of the conversation was there in the presence of Hillier, he being one of the. parties
GARROW 5170 Was it in the presence of Hillier 
GARROW 5172 seen a copy of the new constitution, I told him I was but a young member, and did not know any thing of it; he then informed me that there was a very clever one coming out; the society was to be divided into diviSins, and into small divisions, that the purpese of that was for the convenience of learning the use of arms, at each other’s houses. 
GARROW 5173 What more passed at that time? 
GARROW 5258 Did he mention any thin with respect to his interview with the officers
GARROW 5260 You think it an indecent expression 
GARROW 5262 Was Hillier present during the whole of this conversation of Baxter 
GARROW 5264 Was it pronounced in a way in which every person might hear
GARROW 5266 Did he state whether any, and what number of pikes were ready at that time, at any Place 
GARROW 5268 Did he give any caution with respect to conYersing in tie division-mecting, respectin; the pikes, at that time
GARROW 5270 The new constitution of the society 
GARROW 5272 Did he give any reason for the necessity of that caution
GARROW 5274 Was there any thing said in the course of this conversation with respect to the French emigrants 
GARROW 5276 What prisoners 
GARROW 5278 Did he name any of those persons who had offered such insults to the people that human nature could not overlook 
GARROW 5280 And other persons 
GARROW 5282 In the course of thatevening, did you return to your home in company with Baxter 
GARROW 5284 Did he state to you any of the other arguments that Moore had used with the army —. He recommended that I should mix with them, treat them with beer, and enlarge upon the severity of their usage and the smallness of their pay; but I must first sound their principles, and if I found them aristocrats, then I must not go on. 
GARROW 5285 In the course of the evening, when this conversation was had, was Hillier’s pike produced 
GARROW 5287 Was it produced at any time when any of those persons were present with you
GARROW 5289 Where was that meeting at
GARROW 5291 This is not a division meeting, but the meeting of some few members 
GARROW 5293 Who were the persons present upon the 16th 
GARROW 5295 The attorney general suggests to me, whether it is possible that I should go into any examination respecting facts which took place after the prisoner was in custody ? 
GARROW 5297 On the 12th of May. 
GARROW 5299 Then we do not wish to examine as to any facts which have happened subsequent; I have at present confined my examination to facts prior to his being taken into custody. Do you recollect the circumstance of Mr. Hardy’s being apprehended 
GARROW 5301 Had you any conversation with respect to admission to the House of Commons? If that was after Hardy was apprehended, I do not inquire into it 
GARROW 5303 Do you remember a paper being distributed with respect to the Ins and the Outs 
GARROW 5305 Where was that distributed? — At the meeting at the Coach and Horses, in Hattonlen. 
GARROW 5306 Was that before Mr. Hardy was apprehended 
GARROW 5308 With respect to all these circumstances that you collected from time to time, you communicated them to Mr. Wickham, the magistrate, and with his approbation attended these meetings
GARROW 5310 And attended them for the express purpose of giving this information 
GARROW 5498 I submit to your lordship that is the only answer a witness can make to such a question. 
GARROW 5525 I shall examine to it. 
GARROW 5626 You said Worship produced an engraving at one of the meetings; cast your eye upon that paper; is that one of the engravings he preduced [showing the witnessa copper-plate print of the manual exercise.]
GARROW 5628 brought it to the society, that they might see it. 
GARROW 5629 What have the soldiers got upon their heads 
GARROW 5631 This is an engraving of the manual exercise, and of platoon firing
GARROW 5633 When you applied to him, lest he should Suspect you were connected with a magistrate, you told him you were a dealer in naval stores 
GARROW 5635 And afterwards, in the rest of: the conversation, you kept up that representation
GARROW 5637 How long is it ago since you gave a note to Mr Lincoln, Mc Macnamara's Agent
GARROW 5639 Did you give it to Mr. Macnamara, or to Mr. Lincoln 
GARROW 5641 How much was the amount 
GARROW 5643 How much, at this moment is due upon that note 
GARROW 5645 Have you ever had any application from Mr. Macnamara, for the money, till after attending this court, in virtue of his majesty’s writ of subpoena, and anrong the witnesses for the crown 
GARROW 5647 I need hardly ask you, whether you had had any personal application from Mr. Macnamara, to pay this money 
GARROW 5649 Had youhad any application, upon his part, till you were subpcenaed as a witness 
GARROW 5651 How long ago 
GARROW 5653 Did Mr. Macnamara come to you alone 
GARROW 5655 He said he came out of hamanity to you
GARROW 5657 If what
GARROW 5659 Did Mr. Macnamara demand the money, or desire you to pay it ? —He asked me, if I remembered the circumstance ; I said it was an improper place to enter into an explanation ; I did not know Mr. Macnamara’s person; I told him, if he did, I must meet it in court. 
GARROW 5660 You have been asked a vast number of questions, respecting Mrs. Coleman’s will; was there any suit instituted to dispute the legality of that will 
GARROW 5662 Was there any prosecution for that which is called the forgery of it
GARROW 5664 Was there ever, to your knowledge, any complaint made against you, that there was any thing foul in the transaction 
GARROW 5666 Was it, upon your oath, 2 fair, honest transaction, as far as you had any thing to do with it; aye or no 
GARROW 7753  Where is your place of residence
GARROW 7755 You were a member of the society, calling itself the Friends of the People 
GARROW 7757 When did you commence a member of thad society 
GARROW 7759 Were you at any time a member of any meeting or society, which was called the Brtish Couvention
GARROW 7761 When did you become a member of that convention 
GARROW 7763 Were you deputed to the convention as 3 delegate from your society 
GARROW 7765 Can you tell us at what time that delegation took place
GARROW 7767 So that you were a delegate from your society 
GARROW 7769 Do you know at what time you were apinited, a delegate to the convention
GARROW 7771 Did you attend any of the meetings of the British Convention at Edinburgh 
GARROW 7773 Were there delegates at the meetings of that convention from other societies in Scotland
GARROW 7775 From any other parts besides Scotland, south 
GARROW 7777 Were you at any time a member of the London Corresponding Society 
GARROW 7779 Do you remember, at any time, receiving any letter similar to that which I now put into your hand (showing a letter to the witica a did receive some letter similarto this. 
GARROW 7780 Among those which you received, did you receive the identical letter that I have put into your hand? if you look, you will see your owg writing on it
GARROW 7782 What number of letters did you receive with that, which were of a similar tendency
GARROW 7784 Whom did you receive them from 
GARROW 7786 Was he a member of any of the societies in Edinburgh 
GARROW 7788 Of which
GARROW 7790 What particular name had it
GARROW 7792 I was a member. 
GARROW 7793 Was there in that society to which you and Stock belonged, any committee which was known by any particular name
GARROW 7795 Having received five or six of these letters from Stock, what did you do with them
GARROW 7797 Look at the superscription to that in your hand, and tell me where that was sent to 
GARROW 7799 Name some other places to which you sent this letter 
GARROW 7801 Any other
GARROW 7803 Did you send any to Dundee
GARROW 7805 ‘ou told me you attended several meetings of the British Convention, as it was called ; be so good as tell us any of the preening: of the British Convention, at which you were resent; had you any icular cause of owledge? did you write any of the minutes of the meeting
GARROW 7807 Did you act as secretary of the convention, upon those occasions 
GARROW 7809 Without troubling you with the whole of the proceedings which we have had already; do you remember any particular resolution, which was with any extraordinary solemnity, at the convention 
GARROW 7811 Ifin the minutes of the convention, you should see itin your own band-writing, you would know it again ; but what I am speaking of, is not there; was there any resolution passed with extraordinary solemnity, such as ising up and taking one another by the hand, or any thing of that kind 
GARROW 7831 My lords, we will now read this letter which this witness says he received from Stock ; we have produced a large bundle of these circular letters to country correspondents, which were found in the possession of the prisoner. 
GARROW 7832 This letter was transmitted by the witness to Miller, at Perth, and he says he sent other copies to different places in the country, particularly to Strathaven ; your lordships recols lect that an answer to that sent to Strathaven, has been read. 
GARROW 7833 “ Citizens, The critical moment is arrived, and Britons must either assert with zeal and firmness their claims to liberty, or yield without resistance to the chains that ministerial usurpation is forging for them. Will you coOperate with us, in the only peaceable measure that now presents itself with any prospect of success? We need not intimate to you, that notwithstanding the unparalleled audacity of a corrupt and overbearing faction, which at present tramples on the rights and liberties of the people, our meetings cannot in England be interrupted, without the previous adoption of a convention bill—a measure it is our duty to anticipate, that the ties of union may be more firmly drawn, and the sentiments and views of the different societies throughout the nation be compared, while it is yet In our power, so as to guide and direct the future operations of the friends of freedom. Rouse then, to one exertion more ! and let us show our consciousness of this important truth, “Ifwe are to be beaten down with threats, prosecutions, and illegal sentences, we are unworthy, we are incapable of liberty..—We must, however, be expeditious. Hessians and Austrians are already among us; and if wc tamely submit, a cloud of these armed barbarians may shortly be poured in upon us. Let us form then another British Convention; we have a central situation in our view, which, we believe, would be most convenient for the whole island ; but which we forbear to mention (entreating your confidence in this particular) till we have the answer of the societics any ofthe members, tending that way 
GARROW 7835 Had you any idea from any thing you ever heard, ihat there was an intention in this, or any of these societies, to introduce the anarchy of France into England 
GARROW 7837 You had not 
GARROW 7839 When was this hand-bill brought to you 
GARROW 7880 Attend to this---“ The convention doth hereby resolve, that each delegate, immediately on his return home, do convene his constituents, and explain to them the necessity of electing a delegate, or delegates, and of ssiahliacing a fund, without delay, against any of these emergencies, for his or their expense; and that they do instruct the said delegate or delegates, to hold themselves ready to depart at one hour's warning. Now I fancyIhave brought you to recollect this
GARROW 7882 Now attend, No persons were members of this society but persons of moral life and conversation; respectable, orderly, and decent citizens, I think you told that gentleman
GARROW 7884 So you understood. that question to be, whether there were not some reputable tradesmen belonging to that society
GARROW 7886 Was Watt a member of that society 
GARROW 7888 Was Downie t
GARROW 7890 As you have told that gentleman, upon your cross-examination, that you took the intention to be to proceed by peace and order: 
GARROW 7893 I am much obliged to your lordship for the kindness with which the admonition comes, and for my part, I will endeavour to submit myself immediately to it.— Were you there when it was resolved, “ That the moment of any illegal dispersion of the present convention, shall be considered asa summons to the delegates to repair to the place of meeting appointed for the convention of emergency, by the secret committee : and that the secret committee be instructed to proceed, without delay, to fix the place of meeting
GARROW 7942 It would not have occurred to me to ask you, whether you were a traitor, or your associates declared themselves to be so.—Now I will put some questions to you, upon what you have been asked. You have told that gentleman that you had no idea of assuming the powers of legislation by force 
GARROW 7944 You meant merely to procure, or obtain, if you could, a reform in the representation of the people 
GARROW 7946 And that by peaceable means 
GARROW 7948 And that you would have shuddered at an idea of force, or resistance to the civil power of the country ; dol take you right
GARROW 7950 You had no idea of going farther than a fair, peaceable, and orderly application for a redress of that which you conceived to be wrong 
GARROW 7952 Were you present when that convention came to this resolution ? and then the proper constitutional judges will say, whether you meant it or not : 
GARROW 7953 hat this convention, considering the calamitous consequences of any act of the legislature which may tend to deprive the whole, or any part of the people, of their undoubted right to meet, either by themselves, or by delegation, to discuss any matter relative to their common interest, whether of a public or private nature, and holding the same to be totally inconsistent with the first principles and safety of society, and also subversive of our known and acknowledged constitutional liberties, do hereby declare, before God and the world, that we shall follow the wholesome example of former times, by paying no regard to any act which shall militate against the constitution of our country, and shall continue to assemble and consider of the best means by which we can accomplish a real representation of the people, and annual election, until compelled to desist by superior force.’—Did you know that the convention, of which you were a member, ‘who sought all those things by peaceful and orderly means, had come to that resolution 
GARROW 7955 Upon your oath, were not you present when it was proposed
GARROW 7957 Will you swear you were not present 
GARROW 7959 Can you say you were not present when such a resolution was passed
GARROW 7961 Attend to this “ The convention doth hereby resolve, that each delegate, immediately on his return home, do convene his constituents, and explain to them the necessity of Beene a delegate, or deletes, and of establishing a fund, without lelay, against any of these emergencies, for his or their expense; and that they do instruct the said delegate or delegates, to hold themselves ready to depart at one hour's warning. Now I fancy Ihave brought you to recollect this
GARROW 7963 Now attend, No persons were members of this society but persons of moral life and con versation ; respectable, orderly, and decent citizens, I think you told that gentleman
GARROW 7965 So you understood that question to be, whether there were not some reputable tradesmen belonging to that society
GARROW 7967 Was Watt a member of that society
GARROW 7969 Was Downie t
GARROW 7971 As you have told that gentleman, upon your cross-examination, that you took the Intention to be to proceed by peace and order: 
GARROW 7974 I am much obliged to your lordship for the kindness with which the admonition comes, and for my part, I will endeavour to submit myself immediately to it.— Were you there when it was resolved, “ That the moment of any illegal dispersion of the present convention, shall be considered asa summons to the delegates to repair to the place of meeting appointed for the convention of emergency, by the secret committee : and that the secret committee be instructed to proceed, without delay, to fix the place of meeting 
GARROW 7980 That gentleman has asked you, what you were to do when you should be got together upon the summons of the delegates. Do you mean to state, upon your oath, that you had the least apprehen- , 
GARROW 7981 sion that that meeting, in a Convention of Emergency, summoned by a secret committee of emergency, was for the purpose of again petitioning parliament 
GARROW 7983 Do you mean to state, upon your oath, that ou understood that the resolution which I ve read to you, and which I will read again —“ That we shall follow the wholesome examp!c of former times, by paying no regard to any act which shall militate against the constitution of our country, and shall continue to assemble and consider of the best means by which we can accomplish a real representation of the people, and annual election, until compelled to desist by superior force. — Do you mean to swear that you understood that to be to meet in such convention for the pas of again petitioning parliament
GARROW 7985 Do you mean to state, that you understood that to be the meaning of such a meeting in a Convention of Emergency
GARROW 7987 That the delegates were to hold themselves in readiness to depart at an hour’s warning, for the purpose of again petitioning that parliament, which they had already petitioned without success ? 
GARROW 7992 Do you mean to represent to the Court and the Jury, that you understood that the delegates were to hold themselves in readiness to assemble upon an hour’s Notice, in order to petition parliament upon the dispersion of the convention 
GARROW 7994 Do you mean again to state that you un derstood the purpose of that second convention, after the dispersion of the first, was to petition parliament
GARROW 7996 Let me see whether I understand you distinctly, for God forbid E should misunderstand you, or endeavour to misrepresent you—You 
GARROW 7997 ‘ understood that the convention of emergency, which was to be collected by the committee of emergency upon an hour's notice, was tr petition parliament 
GARROW 7999 For what purpose, after the dispersion of the existing convention, was a new convention of emergency to be called by a committee of emergency, to petition parliament, as you understood it 
GARROW 8001 So that though the first petition should be rejected, and the convention dispersed by force, yet you understood there was to bea committee of emergency. to call a new convention of emergency, and so & on i petitioning, though they should have ther petitions again rejected (—I understood that the Friends of the People meant to petition parliament till they should gain their end. 
GARROW 8002 Then why did not the society of the Friends of the People go on petitioning perliament, without sending delegates to a British Convention for the purpose of effecting these reforms 
GARROW 8004 And likewise what
GARROW 8006 Where is your place of residence 
GARROW 8008 Did you attend the meetings of that convention 
GARROW 8010 Were there any committees for the purpose of managing the business of this convention 
GARROW 8012 Are you now sworn according to the manmer in which you usually take an oath
GARROW 8014 You were a delegate of the British Convention assembled at Edinburgh 
GARROW 8016 Were there any committees of the convention for the purpose of managing its business 
GARROW 8018 Did they from time to time report to the convention itself
GARROW 8020 Do you remember the circumstance of the convention being dispersed by the magistrates 
GARROW 8022 After the convention was dispersed, do you semember any committec being formed out of the societies 
GARROW 8024 What was the name of it
GARROW 8026 Of what persons was that Committee of Union composed 
GARROW 8028 Was it composed of members of the convention which had bcen dispersed 
GARROW 8030 Were those who, as far as you know, were not members of the former convention, members of the Society of the Friends of the People at Edinburgh 
GARROW 8032 Was there any other committee, called a Committee of Ways and Means 
GARROW 8034 Ieans; but who made it out in that form I know not. 
GARROW 8035 Of that committee which was called the Committee of Ways and Means, who were the members
GARROW 8037 Do you remember Watt, as a member of that Committee of Ways and Means, reading any plan for the purpose of effecting some mischief at Edinburgh 
GARROW 8039 You had been a member of the British Convention
GARROW 8041 What was the plan which was read in she Committee of Ways and Means by Mr. Watt, one of the delegates, and who was a member of that committee 
GARROW 8043 Attend to me a single moment—do you know for what purpose, in particular, you were assembled at the time that this plan was 
GARROW 8044 — ee rend—was it for answering any letter 
GARROW 8046 Ia that Committee of Ways and Means, was there any letter which had come to the society, or any of its members, which pure ported to be a circular letter which you were then met to answer? Leok athis letter, was this letter produced in the Committee of. Ways and Mecans
GARROW 8048 At a Committee of Ways and Means, Watt read a plan
GARROW 8083 This plan of Watt’s, I understand you, was read at a meeting of the committee 
GARROW 8085 How many members of the grand committee might be present when Watt read his first plan
GARROW 8087 So that there were five out of those seven present
GARROW 8089 When Watt read this paper, what passed upon it in the committee 
GARROW 8091 Upon his proposing the second’ phan, when that paper, there was no farther commentpassed about it
GARROW 8093 When
GARROW 8095 How many persons were present
GARROW 8097 The great or sub-committee
GARROW 8099 What was the plan proposed by Watt at that sub-committee meeting 
GARROW 8101 ar hay, to remove the same from their respective places of abode, under pain of death. 
GARROW 8223 What was the Committee of Union for
GARROW 8225 Oh! then a sub-committee formed out of the Committee of Union 
GARROW 8227 Do you mean to represent that the purpose of the committee of Union, as well as that of Ways and Means, was only relative to Skirving’s letter about his own finances.—I ask you was it not for the purpose of establishing a fund far a new convention 
GARROW 8229 You can give no account what the Committee of Union was for
GARROW 8231 You would not have gone into the convention, if you had had an idea of employing an force, or touching the king’s majesty, or at all encroaching upon the constitution, or producing in short a reform, but by peaceable means
GARROW 8233 Did you know that your convention had resolved : “ That this convention, considering the calamitous consequences of any act of the Icgislature, which may tend to deprive the whole, or any part of the peole of their undoubted right to meet, either yy themselves, or by delegation, to discuss any matter relative to their common snr whether of a public or private nature; ani holding the same tobe totally inconsistent with the first principles and safety of society ; and also subversive of our known and acknowledged constitutional liberties ; — do hereby declare, before God and the world, that we shall follow the wholesome example of former times, by paying no regard to any act which shall militate against the constitution of our country; and shall continue to assemble and consider of the best means by which we can accomplish a real representation of the people, and annual election ; until compelled to desist by seperr force 
GARROW 8235 Do not you know that with reat solemnity the convention had come to that resolution
GARROW 8237 Did you not know that the convention had resolved, that in certain emergencies, they should declare their sittings permanent 
GARROW 8239 Nor that it should be constituted, and proceed to business, as svon as twenty-one should be met 
GARROW 8241 Did you not know that the convention resolved that the delegates were to hold themselves ready to depart at an hour's warning, and to repair to the place of mecting appointed by the committee of emergency.— Did you
GARROW 8243 You have heard the delegates were to meet at an hour's notice 
GARROW 8245 That iivey were to be furnished with information 
GARROW 8247 Who was to furnish them with it
GARROW 8249 Upon your oath, do not you know it was to be a convention of emergency 
GARROW 8251 The purpose of this new convention. I take it for granted, was only to petition parliament for a reform 
GARROW 8255 It has been examined to on the other side. 
GARROW 8259 Did you search the house of Watt, who was executed at Edinburgh
GARROW 8261 Did you find any pikes in his house 
GARROW 8454 You have been already examined
GARROW 8456 Were you a member of the London Corresponding Society 
GARROW 8458 And attended the division meetings 
GARROW 8460 Look at that paper [showing hima pepe); were papers of that sort distributed at the vision meeting of the society 
GARROW 8462 Did you ever see them there; I saw one of them handed round at the division st Snow-hill. 
GARROW 8463 When 
GARROW 8465 About how long ago 
GARROW 8467 Did you see more than one 
GARROW 8475 Did you at any time find any pikes in the house of Orrock in Edinburgh
GARROW 8477 Did you find any pikes there? —Yes—to the amount of thirty-three, finished aud unfinished. 
GARROW 8478 ‘Those which you state to be finished, had blades and shafts] suppose
GARROW 8480 Did you find any in the possession of any other person
GARROW 8482 Were they likewise blades without shafts? 
GARROW 8483 —There was one shaft. 
GARROW 8489 We submit to your lordships that it is evidence to go to the jury, that the pikes which were found in the possession of Watt, are those pikes which were made in execution of the order given by Watt to Orrock, antecedent to the apprehension of the prisoner. 
GARROW 8518 Does not your lordship think it fit to inquire whom he has talked to since he was examined? 
GARROW 8522 You are what they call sheriff Clerk’s depute, in the city of Edinburgh 
GARROW 8524 Did you go with Middleton to the house of Orrock 
GARROW 8526 Were you present at the finding of any blades for pikes at Watt’s honse 
GARROW 8528 How many did you find upon the first search 
GARROW 8530 Where were they
GARROW 8532 How soon did you renew your search
GARROW 8534 How many did you find at the second search 
GARROW 8536 Blades
GARROW 8538 Pend you make any trial whether the blades and the pole as you call it, would fit each sother
GARROW 8540 Where is the pole
GARROW 8542 Where did you deposit the several things that you found at Watt’s house 
GARROW 8544 I believe you are sheriff of Edinburgh 
GARROW 8546 Was that box, and the thing the witness calls the pole, deposited in your care as sheriff
GARROW 8548 Except then when they were delivered to Lockhart, they have been constantly locked wp under your care 
GARROW 8550 Did you return these to the sheriff, which you had from him, after the Edinburgh trials
GARROW 8552 And are these the same the sheriff delivered to you 
GARROW 8554 Is Stock still living at Edinburgh, or has he absconded
GARROW 8556 Open the box, and take out some of those blades. [Mr. Lockhart opened the-box.] 
GARROW 8557 Is that what you call the battle-axe 
GARROW 8559 Ilave you got any other sort of blades there
GARROW 8561 You Vain to me, in taking one of these blades out, to screw off something—what is that
GARROW 9599 Have J taken you correctly, that you ceased to be s member in April, 1793
GARROW 9601 And since that, you have not been acquaint
GARROW 9602 Then I will not give you: trouble. 
GARROW 10939 I shall not trouble you with the quests the gentleman has Fepeaiel several is whether you are a traitor, and ought 0 hanged; I shall not ask you whetber have been guilty of high treason, ea These papers that were thrown abot streets at Sheffield, alarmed, very consider) you, who were called democrats 
GARROW 10941 And made it, as you thought, ness that you should procure arms for your defence 
GARROW 10943 To what extent now did this dreadful arm, which made it neces: to procure as your own defence go; how many P these arm themselves in cot ce 0 
GARROW 10944 dreadful alarms 
GARROW 10946 You have been asked a good deal your own conduct, no doubt you P! had oot musket and bayonet 
GARROW 10948 Nor pike 
GARROW 10950 Upon your oath, you had neither a musket nor a pike
GARROW 10952 Netwithstanding all this dread and excitation in the streets, you still continued to kee yourself unarmed 
GARROW 10954 Which of the magistrates was it you applied to, for you forgot to mention his name, to prevent these desperate people from destroying you all
GARROW 10956 I beg pardon, I made a mistake, it was the secretary of state you applied tof—No, asa society we never applied. 
GARROW 10957 I thought we did not understand one another; which of the magistrates was it that, as an individual, you applied to
GARROW 10959 You applicd to the secretary of state perhaps
GARROW 10961 Did any body apply 
GARROW 10963 Did you not communicate these alarming threats toany body 
GARROW 10965 ‘ou made no application to any body 
GARROW 10967 You are an accurate man; I see you take the duke of Richmond’s and Mr. Pitt’s plan, and all these things, most perfectly; there were papers thrown about the streets, desiring the opposite party, opposite to the democrats, to destroy all people of a different persuasion 
GARROW 10969 That was the same paper that desired people to arm against foreign invasion and domestic enemies
GARROW 10971 Did pee ever see any paper distributed in Sheffield by the opposite party, except that paper that I describe, as an invitation to arm against domestic enemies and foreign invasion 
GARROW 10973 Upon which your society immediately adopted. their words, and advised the democrats to arm, for the protection of property? 
GARROW 10976 Did not your society adopt the very words of it, as an invitation for the people to arm, for the protection of property
GARROW 10978 Did they not adopt the very language of that paper, which you stated to be an excitement
GARROW 10980 And did you not, in consequence of that apprehension, adopt the very words 
GARROW 10982 The duke of Richmond’s plan, and Mr. Pitt’s, were the things you adopted 
GARROW 10984 Have the goodness to inform a very ignorant man, which I profess myself to be, about all these things; what was this plan of the duke of Richmond's and Mr. Pitt’s
GARROW 10986 What did you take Mr. Pitt’s plan for a more equal representation to be 
GARROW 10988 That you took to be Mr. Pitt’s plan
GARROW 10990 So much for the accuracy of your informa. 
GARROW 10991 tion, That gentleman read to you something about rights of man from the duke of Richmond’s plan; those were the only doctrines, of the rights of man, that ever you troubled yourselves with at Sheffield, were they; the duke has introduced an expression about the rights of man; did you read any other publications about the rights of man at Sheftield
GARROW 10993 You were a cutler 
GARROW 10995 Tom Paine’s Rights of Man, had not you
GARROW 10997 That is not an answer; you know every cutler in Sheffield had one; you had a cheap copy, had you
GARROW 10999 I dare say you have seen the best edition ; 
GARROW 11000 have you one of the cheap copies
GARROW 11002 I am sorry to be so troublesome, but I 
GARROW 11003 must have an answer
GARROW 11005 I do not ask you whether you read it to any human creature but yourself; do you happen to have one 
GARROW 11007 A cheap copy; was it made a present of to you, or how did you get it
GARROW 11009 A subscription of the society
GARROW 11011 Upon your oath, to the amount of how many thousand of your townsmen were there, that had this cheap edition of the Rights of Man
GARROW 11013 0 you not believe that of the cutlers alone, in the town of Shefficld, who had the cheap edition of the Rights of Man, there were many thousand 
GARROW 11015 I take for granted, that you having read that book, considered it very much as a sensible, well-written book 
GARROW 11017 Were you, or not, one of those who attended and passed resolutions, very properly approving of that book 
GARROW 11019 You mean, at the society, where it was read for information and instruction
GARROW 11021 Was it in the division meeting 
GARROW 11023 When a few friends met for constitutional information, you then read that book 
GARROW 11025 There werc ether cheap books furnished by the same subscription, were there not
GARROW 11027 Could you help us to the titles of any of them
GARROW 11029 "Do you recollect the proceedings at the Globe-tavern, in this town
GARROW 11031 At Chalk Farm 
GARROW 11033 At the Crown and Anchor
GARROW 11035 I hope you had all Paine’s works 
GARROW 11037 ‘Were you present at the meeting, when a public resolution was passed, expressing aprobation of Paine’s works
GARROW 11039 You will not venture to swear you were not 
GARROW 11041 If you had been there, you would not have been dissentient
GARROW 11043 You told me, just now, you agreed in thinkang a valuable work 
GARROW 11045 ‘hat do you take to be his notion, as to the use of monarchy in any state 
GARROW 11047 Upon your oath, do you not understand his book, the Rights of Man, to be a specific for getting rid of kings every where, not only as useless, but as burthensome and destructive to the rights of man 
GARROW 11051 Upon your oath, did you not understand Paine’s works to be expressly written for the purpose of inculcating a notion, that monarchy was destructive to all civilized states, and that they could not too soon get rid of all kings
GARROW 11053 You did not understand it an approbation of his works
GARROW 11055 Then I take for granted, you entered a protest against that part that touched the monarchy 
GARROW 11057 I will read you a little of it: “ All hereditary government is in its nature tyranny. Do you happen to know that the monarchy in this country constituted a part of an hereaes government
GARROW 11059 And that Paine asserts tyranny to be interwoven in its very nature and existence 
GARROW 11061 “An heritable crown— you are politician enough—I am sure a much better one than I am—to know that the crown of Great Britain is an heritable crown 
GARROW 11063 I take it for granted, that the throne ef Great Britain is, in your judgment, an heritable throne 
GARROW 11065 Did you know that Paine says this: An heritable crown, or an heritable throne, or by what other fanciful name such things may bs called, have no other significant explanation, than that mankind are heritable property. To inherit a government is to inherit the people, as if they were flocks and herds. This Passage was not expunged, I hope, in your cheap edition 
GARROW 11067 Was that passage fairly printed im your copy 
GARROW 11069 Now, after the account you have given of yourself, and your manner of studying politics, Task you upon your oath, do you believe, that that passage was not in your copy
GARROW 11071 Then you have no memory of what he says about heritable crowns and heritable thrones
GARROW 11075 Was there any thing in Paine’s book that had for its object, to reconcile the people to the necessary expenses of their establishments and their government ; to make them contented under the weight of taxes that, to be sure, we must bear 
GARROW 11077 Tam asking respecting this book, which you have studied accurately and attentively; did it strike you that there were any passages in it, tending to reconcile the people to the necessary burthens of the state
GARROW 11079 Were there none that struck you to have a contrary tendency, to excite the people to be dissatisfied and discontented, and to think their burthens were unnecessary? — We thought it was our duty to apply to parlisment for redress. 
GARROW 11080 That is no answer; tell me whether you recollect this passage, and I am now reading out of the cheap edition: “ It is inhuman to talk of a million sterling a year, paid out of the public taxes of any country, for the support of any individual, whilst thousands, who are forced to contribute thereto, are pining with want, and struggling with misery. you recollect such a passage as this
GARROW 11082 You thought this a strong passage in f& vour of monarchy did you
GARROW 11084 You read this passage 
GARROW 11086 And having read it, be so good as to tell me whether you consider that as a recommendation ofthe continuance of monarchy, orits immediate destruction—how do you understand the passage 
GARROW 11088 T have already digelninned the intention to ask you any such question, because it is not fitto ask you whether you were a traitor, attend to my question—how did you understand the passage I have read to you, that“ monarchy would not have existed so many ages in the world, had it not been for the abuses it protects’? Did you understand that to be a recommendation, to the people of England, to protect and cultivate the monarchical principle, or to destroy it as soon as they could 
GARROW 11090 ‘ow did you understand the author to be advising when you read that
GARROW 11092 Upon your oath, do not you understand thepassage, and did not you, when you read it, understand it to be a recommendation to get rid of monarchy as svon as you could 
GARROW 11094 Did not you understand the author so to advise 
GARROW 11096 You understood that the object of a parliamentary reform was to be effected by petitioning, as that gentleman put it; if petitions of people in ditterent towns would not do, then there were to be petitions from delegates in aconvention. Did you expect your redress from parliament itself
GARROW 11098 Attend, then, to this passage in Mr. Paine's book, and tell me what you thought of that: —“ The bill, which the present Mr. Pitt brought into parliament, some years ago, to reform parliament, was on the same erroneous principle. The right of reform is in the nation, in its original character, and the constitutional method would be by a general convention, elected for the purpose, and so on. Now, having read this, as his account of a bill brought into parliamentto reform parliament ; and having stated that the nation itself, in its original character, was to do that, do you still adhere to it, that you expected it to be done by the House of Commons
GARROW 11100 You stated to that gentleman, that you grounded yourselves upon the glorivus advantages we obtained by the Revolution in 1683 ; you, doubtless, have read with attention Mr. Paine’s account of these advantages
GARROW 11102 You have, no doubt, read such a thing as the Bill of Rights 
GARROW 11104 "Vhere is no cutler in Sheffield, but has read that, and attended to Paine’s account of itWe bave attended to the Bill of Rights, 
GARROW 11105 Does he, in giving his account of this, call that Bill of Rights, a Bill of Wrongs and Insults 
GARROW 11107 Do not you know Paine so treats it in his Rights of Man
GARROW 11109 observe you made use of this expression more than once, in your answers to the learned gentleman’s questions, that you ever heard the society, as a body, propose to teuch the dignity of the House of Lords, nor as body, propose to interfere at all with the monarchy
GARROW 11111 Did you know Mr. Yorke
GARROW 11113 And have heard him, perhaps 
GARROW 11115 Did he use to attend at the mecting at Broomhead’s where the tribune was 
GARROW 11117 Were you a member of the secret committee 
GARROW 11119 Did you attend upon the Castle-bill when Yorke was there 
GARROW 11121 Am [right in supposing there was a motion made there for petitioning parliament 
GARROW 11123 What was the fate of that motion 
GARROW 11125 The motion for petitioning parliament was rejected, I believe 
GARROW 11127 How many votes were there for pctitioning parliament 
GARROW 11129 Upon your oath, was there a single hand but the hand of the mover and the seconder; I suppose all motions were seconded ? 
