GROSE 1405 I must confess, I have very great doubts upon this subject. The majority of the cuurt is for rejecting the evidence. It does seem to me, I must confess, at least very doubtful whether it ought to be rejected; for it appears to me, that this is evidence of what the parties meant by whag was done at a place where both these parties were present, and both members of one society, and professedly concerned in one plan; it is therefore very material to hear what either of them says respecting this plan, for there is mo doubt about it that these papers are respecting this plan, to show the extent of the plan, and the intention, the animus with which these rele met, and were publishing these papers; therefore, in ‘that light, I must confess, what my brother Buller has said has struck me very much. But, exdlusive of that, from the beginning ‘the inclination of my opinion was and is, that it is evidence. 
GROSE 1517 I am of opinion this evidence must be received for the purpose of showing that there was a conspiracy, and of what nature that conspiracy was. In this case the address has just now been produced and read; and in that address it appears that Martin was the chairman, the prisoner the secretary, and that there was a correspondence, both between the prisoner and Margarot, and between Martin and Margarot; that complicates or implicates these three persons in a business of this sort. Then is it not very material for us to hear for the purpose of showing the nature of the conspiracy, the extent and the intention of the parties, what one conspirator writes to the uther, respecting these very acts that are done in the course of transactions relative to this very plan? And when itis said that this is merely aconfession ora writing, I think it is more because we know very well that in many circumstances of this sort it has been determined that, scribere est agere ; and the writing here isan act, and it is such ap act as may show the extent of the plan, that there was a plan, it may show for any thing I know the intention of the parties to that plan. I confess, therefore, I am of opinion that this evidence ought to be read. 
GROSE 4834 But let us hear the conversation, Mr. Bower, not what he collected. j 
GROSE 7273 “J am satisfied that from the quarter where I gave my information the societies would be known; I believe those were the words. 
GROSE 7303 In this casc, it seems to me, that we all agree about the principle, the question is, who is right in the application of that principle; for we do most perfectly agree in this principle, that the name of the informer is not to be disclosed : that isthe law stated; that is the law agreed and argued upon by the counsel on both sides. Then the question in this case is, whether this persun, whose name is asked, ig to he considered as the informer. Now the evidence is this; I consulted witha friend, who advised me what to do, and to make a teport. I did so, and I have done it from time to time. Then in consequence of whose advice is it that this isdone? In consequence of this man’s advice, whose name is now asked. If it is in consequence of his advice, I must confess it does seem to me that, essentially and substantially, and according to every idea of good sense, he must be considered to be the informer: But it is very true that, perhaps in the course of this investigation, the name of some other person may be inquired, whose name it may not be competent to ask, and the reason may be this, that in the course of this business there may be more informers. than one, aad ine yume rinciple that applies to one, will a of Lely to the cthlerss and when I find bat the evidence is, that this man advised the witness what to do, I must confess that the witness having acted in consequence of that advice, he seems to me tu be as essentially a pe I nm the informer as any one person can be in-thie case, because if it had not been for his advice, non constat, that this would have been done, I therefore, however unwilling I am, and [aps always exceedingly unwilling in a case where life is at stake to shut the door of evidence, yet where a point of great constitutional law, that which is to affect the public justice of the kingdom is in question, I must decide upon it as my conviction tells me is right, at the same time lamenting that there should be such a difference in the Court as there is now, because I am very willing to confess, that it has not been the habit of my prace tice, never having sat in that court, where those questions most frequently arise, to decide upon those questions; but however the little ability I have I must employ upon the subject; and taking the rule and the principle to be that the name of the informer is not to be disclosed, I can only look to whether this person, whose name is referred to, is the informer or not; he appearing to be essentially the informer, I think, according to the tule of law, the question ought not to be put. 
