GURNELL 1028 I found this letter among the prisoner's papers. 
GURNELL 1029 London, the 5th Octr. 1793. 
GURNELL 1030 “ Dear Sir ; With pleasure I peruse your favour of the 2d inst. but as yet have seen nor heard nothing of the two copies of Mr. Muir’s trial, which you mention as being sent to the society and myself; be kind enough, notwithstanding, to return that gentleman thanks for his polite attention, and assure him, that we view him in the light of a martyr to freedom as well as Mr. Palmer, and that our warmest hopes are, that the oppressors of mankind will either be ashamed or afraid of carrying their revengeful malice into execution. he general convention which you mention, appears to Mr. Margarot (to whom alone I have communicated your letter) and myself, to be a very excellent measure; and as such, I could wish Sieg witKout delay to communicate it officially to our society, without any “ways mentioning that you had written to me privately. If, in your official letter, you should Tequire of us to send a deputation to that meeting, I have no doubt ‘but our society would with pleasure accept the invitation ; and I am persuaded it would do much good. Our freedom, as you justly observe, depends entirely upon ourselves, and upon our availing ourselves of this opportunity, which, once Jost, may not besoon recovered. Iam glad to discover by your testimony, that 1 was not mistaken in the high opinion I always had of lord Daer’s patriotism; a title may be a bar to disinterested patriotism, but it seems, he has evinced it not to be an insuperable one. 
GURNELL 1031 “You are right; it is true, that we have had another general meeting, at which a hastily composed, and suddenly ‘produced address to the king was read, applauded, and agreed to be presented, but on a cool revisal, the said address being found ‘to be more illnatured than spirited, more dangerous in its language than advantageous in its object, besides being too long, the committee, with the approbation of the society, have adopted another, much safer, more apposite, and relating solely to the war—inclosed you have a copy of it. But you was misinformed, when you was told we passed any resolution at that meeting, for we only came to one, and that tather of a private nature, namely, that the conduct of sir James Saunderson in preventing the meeting of the London Corresponding Society at the Globe tavern, Fleet-street, was vf such a nature as to place him below eur censure
GURNELL 1033 “‘P.S. Mr. Margarot desires to be rememdered to you in the most affectionate manner. Do not in future, on the addressof your letters to me, mention any thing of the London Corresponding Society, for it was a thousand to one that I received that letter by post. 
GURNELL 1034 & Mr. Wm. Skirving, Head of the 
GURNELL 1035 Horse Wynde, Edinburgh. 
GURNELL 1111 I found this letter in Mr. Hardy's desk. 
GURNELL 1112 “ Edinburgh, Tuesday, Dec. 2, 1793. 
GURNELL 1113 “ Citizen Hardy, We received last night a letter signed by you, but written by another Person, acquainting us with the determination of the committee, ‘ that at the adjournmentof the convention, we should return imme‘diately toLondon.’ This determination we will undoubtedly conform unto, unless it be (as we hope ad trust it will) contradicted in your next ; for, if the committee abides by it, we who, by being on the spot and thoroughly ac alm with the state of the country, cam judge with certainty thereon—do assure you that our immediate return to London will be attended with very bad consequences; for at present all the country societies look up to us to come among them, to enliven, to encourage them, to convince them by our presence that we exist, that we have been sent from England for the purposes of union and reform, and that the time is near at hand when such reform must take place. Nothing, dear friends, must force us from Scotland at pees but the absolute impossibility of earing the expenses attending our mission, and those expenses may be somewhat lessened by recalling one of us and leayimg the other; our Norwich friends may likewise bear a part of them; so that, unless the funds of the socicty are very low indeed, no excuse for recall can be valid, unless founded on fear, and that we must remind you, is our concern and not yours. While, therefore, the idea of uniting our society with the whole kingdom of Scotland affords you a pleasing prospect, let us do every thing in our power to cement that union; and this can only be done by a longer residence in the country, and by visiting the several societies which have sent delegates to Edinburgh, and would think themselves ill-used if we did not take theit town in our way. Consider of it then, we beseech you, and let us have your answer immediately.. 
GURNELL 1114 “ The convention proceed with great spirit; we sit daily: and last week we came toa resolution, which we fancy will give pleasure to every fricnd to reform: as the minutes are to be printed, we will, at present, only give you the heads of it, viz. aan 
GURNELL 1115 “ That should any attempt be made by guvernment for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus bil, the introduction of a convention bill, or the landing of foreign troops in Great Britain or Ireland, the delegates are inmediately to assemble in convention at a certain place, the appointment of which is left with a secret committee. That, when seven delegates shall be thus assembled, they shall declare themselves permanent; and, when their number amounts to twenty-one, they shall proceed to business: thus you see we are providing against what may happen. 
GURNELL 1116 “ Citizen Gerrald’s health ts so far recovered as to not prevent him from fully attending his duty. We cannot say as much of citizen Sinclair, from the Society for Constitutional Information; he has been confined to his bed ever since Saturday by a violent fever and sore throat: he is, however, somewhat better this morning. He is a valuable oung man; and should he die, his loss would ts severely felt; not indeed by his constituents, who have basely abandoned him, but by all the friends of freedom. He is a member of our society, and we recommend him to your notice. 
GURNELL 1117 “ You will before this have received our est, of the 26th November, acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 23rd, together with a remittance of 12. 12s. Od. Our time is so constantly employed that we find it absolutely impossible as yet to write to you more than once a week, and even that on no fixed day; eighteen hours out of the four-andtwenty are devoted to public business, and you may rest assured they are not misspent. We are happy to hear that you go on as well in the south as we do in the north. Letters convey but very imperfectly, and with no great degree of safety, what we might wish to inform each other of. You have done us a material injury by neglecting to send us a parcel of our publications, and a number of copies of the Juryman’s Rights ; pray do not delay them any longer, and among them some of the letters to Dundas. We sent you an Edinburgh Gazetteer last week: we will send you another to-morrow; you will therein see part of what has passed in the convention
GURNELL 1119 “ M. Marcarot, delegate, 
GURNELL 1120 “M.M. would be glad to receive a line from T. H. about private business of his own. 
GURNELL 1121 Addressed—“ Mr. Thomas Hardy. 
GURNELL 1137 I found these papers in the prisoner’s house. 
GURNELL 1138 “ Edinburgh, Dec. 8, 1793. 
GURNELL 1139 “ Fellow Citizens, We desire that a copy of the inclosed papers be kept by the society, and that another copy of them be delive without delay to citizen Martin, in order that he may proceed thereupon immediately. 
GURNELL 1140 “ You willalready have had confused accounts of what has taken place here for the last four days, but on T uieslay next the Edinburgh Gazetteer shall (if despotism permit} give you a complete detail of every thing; the society will thereby be able to discover, that our arrival in Scotland has been productive of great advantage to the cause, and at the same time has given great alarm to our enemies. We are very much surprised at the remissness of the society, while we are exposing our life and liberty, while we are devoting our time and our exertions to their service, while we are incurring numberlessexpenses, and affronting dangers which would stagger the most Hardy of them; while we are doin: all this, we are moreover obliged to remind them of it, and that supplies are now become more necessary than ever. Surely the pecuniary exertions of any individual in the society can never be compared to our endeavours; honoured with their confidence, we find ourselves happy in being placed in the front of the battle ; but let them remember that our sacrificing ourselves will be of little use, unless they afford us a proper support, and that most immediately. Not daring any longer to trust to the post, we send you all these papers in a parcel ; you will be so guod as to make us acquainted with their safe arrival. Gerrald wishes to get to London as soon as possible: he will communicate that which cannot be so fully expressed by letter; you may consider this as a private letter, but you may read such parts of it, as you think proper, to any member of the society, especially where it may be productive of good. You will see by the inclosed papers, that power has proceeded in a most arbitrary manner; almost all the prominent characters in the convention have been, or are to be apprehended and examined. Lord Daer will, we believe, meet with no greater favour than ourselves ; we understand that there is a warrant out against him. As an account of what has happened to us would exceed the bounds of a letter, we will only just give you a sketch of it, by way of journal, referring you as we said before, to next Tuesday’s Gazetteer. 
GURNELL 1141 s Thursday morning at seven o'clock, a sheriff's officer, followed by five other men, entered our bed-room, informed us he had a warrant (which, however, he refused to show) for apprehending us, and scizing our papers. We remained confined all day; at night we were examined and admitted to bail, each in the sum of two thousand merks. 
GURNELL 1142 “ Friday morning, at nine o'clock, we were sent for again without a warrant, for the pur-pose of being present at the opening of al small trunk, containing our popes ; but M. ML protesting against the i legality of the whole of the proceedings, and refusing to give up the key, the sheriff substitute and the procurator fiscal dared to proceed no farther in the business. 
GURNELL 1143 “ Saturday morning, at nine o’clock, two messengers came again into our room with Gerrald; they left a summons to appear at ten o’clock with M. M.; they left nothing but a request to accompany Gerrald to the office, yet when arrived there, he found that a warrant was issued against him, for the purpose of detaining him a prisoner. While the box was opened, and the papers examined, M. M. still persisting in his refusal, the ke was forced from him, the trunk was opened, the papers examined, and rae restored; the other part was kept, and a declaration drawn up which he was required to sign, but refused, otesting against the whole of the business. 
GURNELL 1144 errald, however, signed what was drawn up in his name, and we were once more liberated ; and since then, now already twentyfour hours, no further persecution bas been commenced against us; but while we, as individuals, were thus harassed, (Thursday) the whole of the convention were equally ill used; many of them were taken into custody, and when the remainder met as usual, the provost, attended by his myrmidons, went, and after pulling Matthew Campbell Browne, of Sheffield, out of the chair, ordered the convention to disperse, and informed them that he would allow no such meetings in future. (Friday) the next day, the convention having agreed to meet at another place, out of the jurisdiction of the provost; we not tear long assembled before the sheriff, with his myrmidons, appeared among us, and com-manded us to depart; after having asked! whether that meeting was the British Con-vention, and being answered in the affirmative, he next i oes who was president, upon which M. M. having openly asked, andobtained leave of the convention, placed him- ; self in the chair; informed the sheriff that he 
GURNELL 1145 M. M. was then president of the British Con vention, and that he would not break up the meeting unless unconstitutionally forced thereunto by the sheriff's pulling him out of the chair; which the latter (after some little hesitation) having complied with, the ex-president (Gerrald) was also put into the chair, which he would not leave but by being pulled out ; adjourned the convention to the place where it was to become permanent in ils sitting, and having called upon his colleague Gerrald, for to close the meeting with prayer, the company departed peaceably, but not without various reflections on the proceedings, and those reflections not confined merely to the members of the convention, but coming also from the crowd without doors, and even from the attending constables. The next day a [esaresion was issued by the pores forbidding all assembling within the imits of his jurisdiction. We know not what will happen, but we venture to predict that all this persecution will increase rather than diminish the ardour of the people for reform. The country societies hearing of this, are hourly pouring in fresh delegates. Want of paper forbids my writing any more
GURNELL 1147 “ Fellow Citizens, It is impossible for us to find time to write you as we ought; every instant we are injgrrupted, or rather the house is not free from visitors from early hour until twelve at night, and we have besides sucha variety of business upon our hands that we can scarcely make any progress. However, as Sinclair, the delegate of the Society for Constitutional Information, will arrive in town as soon as this letter, he will be able to give you an accurate verbal detail of all the infamous proceedings which have taken place here—of the progress of reform, and of the plans for future operations. My colleague Gerrald also proposes to leave this place the latter end of this, or the beginning of next week. He will explain himself to you. Pray send him money for his journey, &c. He is now gone to Perth on very urgent business. Excuse me from entering into any detail at resent. We have to acknowledge your two jast letters; they came safe, but slow, being delivered only five days after their date, where the delay originated we cannot tell— your first gave us a draft for twelve guineas ; and your second enclosed a ten pound note, both very acceptable ; but we are sorry toadd, that they do not clear our expenses. Expenses which are no ways owing to extravagancy but to absolute necessity, and are extremely profitable to the cause itself. We well know how heavy the burthen is un the society; and we grieve that our former sacrifices shoukl have left us little else to offer other than our personal exertions, We feel as we ought the approbation you bestow on our conduct; and we flatter ourselves, that our future behaviour will give you no reason to think your praise prematurely bestowed. Since Sinclair’s departure nothing new has occurred, excepting the formation of a society some where about the Grampion Hills; they have already got the intelligence that the convention mean to enlighten the Highlands; and they testify their gratitude for our remembrance and our exertions, and have already madc a subscription towards it
GURNELL 1149 “Pray, my worthy friend Hardy, did you some weeks back receive an enclosed letter to Preval? Did you likewise receive the papers and parcel sent you by the Charlotte, on Wednesday the 10th instant? Have you done any thing with that piece of paper? Have you written to Norwich; and Moe they answered you
GURNELL 1151 Most particularly— vale & amor. “Addressed “ Mr. Thomas Hardy, No. 9, Piccadilly. 
GURNELL 1152 Mr. Thomas Maclean,—I found these two papers in the possession of Mr. Adams. 
GURNELL 1153 Alexander Grant said he believed them to be the prisoner’s hand-writiag. 
GURNELL 1154 (They were read.] 
GURNELL 1155 “ London January 10, 1794. 
GURNELL 1156 “Citizen Adams; The London Corresponding Society begs the society for Constitutional Information to accept of a few copies of M. Margarot’s indictment. 
GURNELL 1157 “ Thomas Harpy, secretary. 
GURNELL 1158 “P.S. The London Corresponding Society is to have a general mecting, and anniversary dinner on Monday the 20th instant at the Globe tavern, Strand. 
GURNELL 1159 Addressed 
GURNELL 1160 Citizen Adams, sccretary to the Socicty for Constitutional Information. 
GURNELL 1161 “ London, January 11th, 1794. Fellow Citizens, I have just received a letter from citizen Margarot at Edinburgh, with some of the Edinburgh Gazettcers, where you will see that citizen Skirving is found guilty, and sentenced for fourteen years transportation to Botany Bay. Margarot’s trial comes nest, he meets it with great firmness andresolution. I have no time to make my comments on the proceedings, but I think our opponents are cutting their own throats as fastas they can. Now is the time for us to do something worthy of men, the brave detenders of liberty, south ef the English channel, are performing wonders, driving their enemies Plone them like chatf befure the whirlwind. Margarot tells me that he has Not time to write to you just now, but he hopes to have time very soon, when his trial is over, and immured ina prison. The London Corresponding Society is to have a general meeting, and an anniversary dinner on Monday the 20th instant at the Globe tavern, Strand. I have sent you some of Margarot’s and Skirving’s indictment, with two copies of a pamphleton brewing; heis a member of our society, the author; it you approve of it, you may put it in practice, and be a great saving to many families, also a diminution of the revenue, for every one brewing their own beer pay no duty for it, excuse haste ; I still remain, 
GURNELL 1544 I found this paper at Hardy’s house. 
GURNELL 1545 It was read.] 
GURNELL 1546 “ Tolbooth January 24, 1794. 
GURNELL 1547 “ Dear Hardy; I have just received your letter, dated (by mistake I suppose) the 19th, giving me an account of the dinner, of Ramsay, and inclosing a 10. note. I thank you, my valuable friend, for the kind concern you show; butI wish the society may not forget me altogether; however, should they, I am determined to pursue the same line of conduct even if I must pursue it alone. I will, however, remark to youin private, and this letter is meant as a private one, and you may make what use you think fit of it, that the Sheffield Society have behaved far differently from our own, towards their delegate, and even towards his family. Ifyou publish my trial, it might be necessary to place a print of my handsome figure in front, if so, Mrs. Margarot can furnish you with a miniature, whence an engraving can be taken; if that is done, pray Ict the engraver put into my hand the paper, containing the questions to the lord justice Clerk, and let the last of them be legible, viz. Did you not say, that the mob would be the better for losing a little blood ? 
GURNELL 1548 Tt will have a great effect on the public mind: I was going to write a preface to the trial, but on reading the account of the meeting at the Globe tavern, I thought it migtit be better for the society themselves to say some: thing on that head’; but I must again observe, that the Sheffield people seem more in earn est than the Londoners. Pray write to Nor wich : I hope Sutton has paid that bill; if so let Mrs. M. send me 15, of it, and after paying you, keep the remainder: I ask for that money, because I am in arrears here more than the society has sent me; I will endeavour, if I can collect a few of the extraordinary expenses to send youa list of them. Since my last, we have had: an additional padlock putupon our door, and the captain of the Tolbooth is not intrusted with the keys at night, but delivers them to the magistrates, and: calls for them again in the morning: Every thing here shows fear on the one hand, and discontent nearly ripe on the other: here they make no dinners, but yet they meet. It appears, that worthy Skirving was unnoticed in your cups; the Scotch ladies, however, are more kind than the London Corresponding Society; and in the effects of their regard for him, I partake. Gerrald is not yet arrived. I sent the society (by the way of Sheffield) a copy of Scott’s indictment ; they will make what use they think proper of it. Has Martin done any thing for me? The duke of Portland, now that he joins ministry, and coalesces with the landed gentlemen, ought to pay that bill for his brother, lord Edward Bentinck, or they both ought to be exposed to the world, and the abuse of parliamentary seat-jobbing made more public. Armed associations are, i pe r ceive, now set on foot by the rich, wherefore should not the poor do the same? Are you to wait patiently until 20,000 Hessians and Hanoverians come to cut your throats 
GURNELL 1550 your's, “M.M. 
GURNELL 1551 ts ray deliver the inclosed, and show her this. 
GURNELL 1552 “ Mr. Thomas Hardy, No. 9 Piccadilly, London. 
GURNELL 1553 I found this paper at Hardy’s house. 
GURNELL 1554  Bristol, January 28, 1794. 
GURNELL 1555 “ Fellow Citizens ; I am again authorized to write to you, signifying the gratitude of our society for your second epistle, which came to my hands the Srd instant. After reading its contents, I collected as many of our friends as I conveniently could that evening : we read—we blushed, we took courage; we did more, for we resolved on re-assembling, as: we had appointed prior to the determination we announced in ourlast. We intend publishing an address, or something declaratory of ouy sentiments, with all convehient speed: as soon as this is effected, we shall send a copy or copies to you. From the Courier and Evening Gazette we have had information of the trial of Mr. Margarbt, and his sentence to fourteen years transportation. e are by no means at a loss in orming a judgment of the noble cause in which he, with others, are embarked, nor would we be frightened at such sentences. You see, citizens, your epistle has quickened our eourage, and vivified our patriotism, andToused us to resolution; and more, our number is now consideratly increased. Perha) your third epistle may do greater things still: we are sensible ’tis a noble---’tis avirtuous— tis a godlike and immortal cause in which we are now mutually embarked ; and though, for parts, our effort can be but a feeble one, yet he cause we espouse is mighty, is energetic ; — it will finally prevail and prosper. It is our firm opinion, could we but arouse them, that patriots would become nearly the majority of our city. We expected to have had the dozen of the Englishmen’s Rights, which you mentioned in your first epistle.Hope you will send them speedily. We are, fellow citizens, yours, sincerely, 
GURNELL 1556 “ The Bristol Society for Constitutional Information, &c. 
GURNELL 1557  Mr. Thomas Hardy, No. 9, Piccadilly, London. 
GURNELL 2656 I found these papers in Mr. Hardy’s house. 
GURNELL 2657 “7th May, 1792. 
GURNELL 2658 “ Mr. Hardy, the bearer of this, is delegated by the division of the London Corresponding Society that meets at the Bell, Exeter-street, Strand; and is authorized to assist at the committee appointed to form a constitutional code of laws for the government of the Corresponding Society. Rosert Born. 
GURNELL 2659 Indorsed—“ 30th April, 1792. “ Division No, 2—Thos. Hardy, delegate. 
GURNELL 2660 The 30th April, 1799. 
GURNELL 2661 “ Mr. Vaughan, the bearer of this, is deleted by the division of the Corresponding iety that meets at the Bell, Exeter-street ; and is authorized to assist at the committee appointed to form a constitutional code of laws for the government of the Corresponding 
GURNELL 2662 Society. Indorsed—“ 30th April, 1792. 
GURNELL 2663 “ Division No. 3
GURNELL 2665 “ Sir, I take the liberty of sending you a few of our original papers, for your perusal this afterncon—If you see any thing in them worthy of adopting, for the approbation of the delegates to-morrow evening. —Some of them are sweet flowers; and I hope you will be like the bee—extract a little from each. I wish you (if you see any propriety in if) to copy part of the preamble; that part, I mean, e number of inhabitants in each of those populous towns that have not a single voice in choosing a member to represent them
GURNELL 2667 Ration at such an sentation ; 
GURNELL 2668 same way of reasonin zealous friend, April 2, 1792. “No. 4, Taylor’s Buildings, Chandos-street. 
GURNELL 2669 o Mr. Vaughan. 
GURNELL 2976 I found these papers im Ms, Hardy's house. 
GURNELL 2977  Fellow Citizen, The bare-faced aristocracy of the present administration, has nrade it necessary that we should be prepared to act on the defensive against any attack they may command their newly-armed minions to make uponus
GURNELL 2979 “ The blades and hoops (more than which cannot properly be sent to any great distance) will be charged one shilling. Money to be sent with the orders. 
GURNELL 2980 “ As the institution is in its infancy, immediate encouragement is necessary. 
GURNELL 2981 “ Orders may be sent to the secretary of the Sheffield Constitutional Society. (Struck out.] 
GURNELL 2982 “ Ricnagp Davisos. 
GURNELL 2983 “ Sheffield, April 24, 1794. 
GURNELL 2984 “ To prevent post suspicion, direct to Mr. Robert Moody, joiner, Cheney-square, Shef
GURNELL 2985 ‘field. Please to forward the inclosed. 
GURNELL 2986 Addressed, “ Citizen Hardy, No. 9, Piccadilly, London. 
GURNELL 2987 “ Fellow Citizen; The barefaced aristecracy of the present administration, has made it necessary to prepare to act upon the defensive, in case of any attack upon the patriots : a plan has been formed for writ he 2 into effect this necessary business
GURNELL 2989 “ Ricwarp Davison. 
GURNELL 2990 “Direct to Mr. Robert Moody, joiner, Cheney-square, Sheffield, to prevent the pustmaster's suspicion. , 
GURNELL 2991 Addressed
GURNELL 5670 Yes ; I found it at Mr. Hardy’s house. 
GURNELL 5673 1t has, 
GURNELL 5675 I found it in Mr. Roussel’s apartment. 
GURNELL 5677 This has my hand-writing on it; I found this in Mr. Roussel’s apartment. 
GURNELL 5679 In George-street, Black-friars; Roussel was present at the time. 
