HOTHAM 1011 Mr. Erskine stated himself to be in a very delicate situation, which he certainly is ; and it is impossible for him not to see that the Court also are ina very delicate situation; because, as to ourselves, if the adjournment is to take place, every body knows that there is no reason why we should be kept in this house ; we may go to our respective homes; at the same tine, there never has Leen an instance of a jury separating, and going away in the manner that is now etapa. Tcontess I think that there may be very serious consequences from it, As to the necessity, I think nobody can resist it; itis evident that the trial must go to such a length, that it cannot be proceeded upon safely without some sort of an adjournment of that kind: but I do foresee very serious difficulties hereafter, as well as pethaps in this very case, in gentlemen going home, and separating themselves. It is a very delicate and unpleasant situation to be pblized to say to gentlemen that they must be kept here all night; but really, if I am forced to speak, I think that they ought not to separate. 
HOTHAM 1407 I am of the same oinion as my lord chief justice and my lord cief baron. I do not think this is evidence fit to be received. I do not think itisa partthe transaction of the plan to be carried into execution. I consider it as a mere relation of what has passed, which, if it is to affect the prisoner, ought to be confined to the real fact that happened at the time to which this relation alludes. Llowever, there is no evidence to prove that what is stated for a fact in this letter, by which the prisoner is to be implicated, actually did happen. 
HOTHAM 1512 I remain of opinion that in the last case, the letter then offered in evidence ought not to have been suffered to be read. That letter, however, I consider as a very different letter from this; it was enclosing some songs, supposed to have heen sung at a meeting, sent to a totally indifferent person, and that was all that it contained. This letter is written by a man who has been proved to be the chairman of the meeting at the Globe-tavern ; it is stated to be written to, though not received by, Margarot, who has been proved to be the delegate sent by that meeting into Scotland ; and it is stated to contain matters respecting his particular mission to Edinburgh. It 1s stated to contain matters of incitement, and encouragement to him to proceed in the cause in which he was engaged ; namely, in the cause in which he was engaged by the procurement, by the consent, and by the direction of that meeting in 
HOTHAM 1513 London; and that meeting in London has been proved to be composed of the prisoner at the bar, of the writer of this letter, and his correspondent to whom it was intended to be sent, together with many others. 
HOTHAM 1514 Now, therefdre, I do consider this as strong evidence, to show that one of that meeting so blended together as they are with the prisoner, :e such a letter tending to incite and encourage their own delegate to proceed in the business, upon which they had particularly sent him, and for which they had especially commissioned him and empowered him to act, ought to be admitted as evidence to prove the sense of these conspirators, who were also proved to have been together upon that day. 
HOTHAM 2153 It is a history that is pretty publicly known. 
HOTHAM 7301 The witness has said, he communicated this to his friend, under an impression and full persuasion that through him the intelligence which he gave was to he conveyed to a magistrate; that he has distinctly said. Now the question, as it seems to me, does turn upon the principles of public policy. I confess, for my own part, that upon those principles E cannot see any distinction between making a disclosure to the magistrate himself, or making it to any person who is to communicate that disclosure to the magisgrate; the principle is, that public justice demands, in many cases, that sort of secrecy, without which government could not be carried on. There are many cases, we all know, where it is of the last importance to us all, that such secrecy should be observed; and it is admitted on all hands, that if the communication is made to a magistrate, you shall not oblige the witness to disclose who that magistrate is; that is for the purpose of public justice to the country. Now here this man has communicated to his friend for the purpose, and under the persuasion of his going directly to a magistrate, being advised by him to do what he did. I cannot myself, I confess, distinguish the situation of that friend from the situation of a common informer, and we know very well that it would not be Permintat to ask that question of him—here I consider this (I am sorry to differ from my lord chief baron) as a link of the same chain; I do consider that it makes no sort of difference whether the intelligence is directly conveyed to the magistrate, or by more indirect means; the purpose for whieh it is disclosed to this man is, that of being conveyed to the magistrate; and I think upon principle that public justice would be defeated if such a thing was allowed. 
