HUSKISSON 2140 Yes, I was. I believe you resided in the house of the oe salons lord Gower ?—I did. you been in Paris any time previous to the 10th of August’—From the month of July, 1790, so good as to state shortly, what the facts were, which are described as the transactions of the 10th of August, as they relate to transactions at Paris and Versailles, as they fell under observation.—On the 10th of August I iad on opportunity of observing very little, ae I did net go out durmg the contest that took place in the course of that morning. 
HUSKISSON 2142 I heard a firing, and I saw smoke. I saw afterwards sume of the out-buildings on fire at the 3 and I saw people running with their arms towards that part of the town. 
HUSKISSON 2144 The firing of arms, I understood, ‘posers from persons who wished to enter the palace, and also from those who opposed their entrance. 
HUSKISSON 2146 I believe it was. 
HUSKISSON 2148 I saw, in the evening of that day, the governor of the palace, who came to my lodgings to shelter himself ; and he described to me : 
HUSKISSON 2150 He did. 1 went out in the evening, about nine o’clock, and I attempted 
HUSKISSON 2155 Yes, about nine e’clock. I did not see any thing worth mentioning. I went towards the bridge that leads to the palace, where I was stopped by some centinels from approaching nearer. I saw the out-buildings of the palace were then burning. 
HUSKISSON 2159 Every body knows that. 
HUSKISSON 2163 I think it, by the character, to be Mr. Tooke’s. 
HUSKISSON 2165 I have, and delieve it to be his, though I did not see him write it. Look ‘at this paper?—The same handwriting. 
HUSKISSON 2167 Upon these two only. 
HUSKISSON 2169 No; I am clerk to the public-office on beth-street, Whitechapel. 
HUSKISSON 2171 Yes; they were found at Mr. Horne Tooke’s house at Wimbledon. 
HUSKISSON 2173 Yes, it was. 
HUSKISSON 2175 Some were found in bureaus, and some in other places. 
HUSKISSON 2177 Mr. Frost and Mr. Vaughan. 
HUSKISSON 2179 They did. 
HUSKISSON 2181 These two papers (the two not spoken to by Mr. Thornton) are marked by me, as found in the house of Mr. Tooke. 
HUSKISSON 2186 Honoured by the sentiments which you express for me, receive the assurances of my lively gratitude. Your fellow citizen, Petron. 
HUSKISSON 2190 Copy of Letter from Pethion to Tooke. 
HUSKISSON 2215 They have every appearance of being similar to those which I took in, while at Paris, and afterwards in London. 
HUSKISSON 2217 Yes. sy nets is your shop?—In Gerrard-street, 
HUSKISSON 2219 Yes, and not only foreign publications, but all sorts of works, and as to the newspapers which I sold, they were the same that came through the channel of the post office, and by others. 
HUSKISSON 2221 Yes. 
HUSKISSON 2223 Great part of them came from Paris, by the packet, then sent to Millet and Fector, and then forwarded by the mail coach. I received no apers, but what were duly opened at the stom-house at Dover. You are a native of France, I perceive ?—No, I beg your pardon, I am a native of Switzerland. 
HUSKISSON 2225 Yes. 
HUSKISSON 2227 I have. 
HUSKISSON 2229 Perfectly well, I have had a great many of them. 
HUSKISSON 2231 I have never known it. 
HUSKISSON 2233 Perfectly so, and more than that, there are many connexions in London, through which the veracity of this, might be compared. 
HUSKISSON 2235 It is the real aris paper, printed in Paris by Mr. Pilnewood who is the proprietor of it. I have received hse immediately from Mr. Pilnewood’s own ands, 
HUSKISSON 2242 The reading the whole would take up full two hours. 
HUSKISSON 2243 Extract from the speech of Jean Bon St. Andre, taken from the Moniteur-of the 4th of January, 1793. 
HUSKISSON 2244 “ Translation. 
HUSKISSON 2245 f you have to decide on the fate of, Louis, it is because you are a revolutionary assembly, created by the French nation, in a state of insurrection. 
HUSKISSON 2246 “ Extracts from the speech of Barrere, taken’ from the Moniteurs of the 6th and?th of January, 1793. ‘ 
HUSKISSON 2247 ranslation. 
HUSKISSON 2248 “ The question submitted to your deliberation: is of the highest importance to public order, of the greatest difficulty in lepalstan, of the utmost delicacy in politics, absolutely necessary to liberty, and connected with whatever is held most sacred by the nation
HUSKISSON 2249 The calmness which has prevailed in the deliberations, for some days past, forbodes that it will be decided according to justice and reason.—It will not escape history, this contrast between kings, who often, amidst the dissition of courts, signed proscriptions, or the Seat warrant of a thousand citizens; and the representatives ofthe people, whodeliberate with wisdom and caution on the punishment of a single despot.—It is the destiny of kings to be the occasion of the calamities of the people, whether they remain on their thrones, or whether they are precipitated from them. 
HUSKISSON 2250 he people of Paris, by making an holy insurrection against him , the king, on the 20th of August, deprived him of his character of inviolability—The people of the other departments applauded this insurrection, and adopted the result of it—The people have, therefore, already interposed to destroy the royal inviolability —Louis was invested by the tacit consent of the people, with a constitutional inviolability; their tacit consent has deprived' him of the same, and is therefore as lawful as the grant of it.The inviolability of the king cannnot be absolute; it is only relative, and for the end of maintaining the independence of the constituted authorities. 
HUSKISSON 2251 “ The people is the sovereign. 
HUSKISSON 2252 “ A convention differs from a legislature in this respect: a legislature is only a species of superintending magistracy; a moderator of the powers of government: a convention, on the contrary, is a representation of the sovereign
HUSKISSON 2253 The members of the legislative assembly acted, in August, upon these principles; and they declared, in their account of their motives for calling a national convention, that they saw but one measure which could save France ; namely, to have recourse to-the supreme will of the people, and to invite the people to exercise immediately that inalienable right of sovereignty, which the constitution had acknowledged, and which it could not subject to any restriction.—The public interest required, that the will of the People should be manifested in the opinion of & national corivention, formed of representatives, invested by the people with unlimited ers. The will of the peopte is manifested yy the opinion of this convention —The convention pee assembled, is itself that sovereign will which ought to prevail.—It would be contrary to every principle, if the expression of the general will did not reside in the convention alone. 
HUSKISSON 2254 “ You are the representatives of the nation, which relies upon you for taking every measure of public safety, necessary to establish and secure liberty, and to proscribe tyranny, against which the nation has formed an holy insurrection. 
HUSKISSON 2255 “ Tt is despotism when, in the ordinary and permanent establishment of a government, there is no separation of powers —But is it not the very essence of a constituent body to concentre, for the time being, all authority
HUSKISSON 2256 Is it not the very nature of 2 national convention to be the temporary image of the nation; to unite, in itself, all the powers of government, to employ them against the enemies of liberty, and to distribute them ins new social compact, called a constitution ?—Behold that Constituent Assembly, which, though abominably calumniated at present, laid (in spite of the shameful revision of the laws) the first foundation of your liberty. Behold it alone, with its revolutionary genius; it broke through every impediment, exceeded its delegated authority, created its own pow: according to the exigencies of liberty, to the wants of the people; destroyed all prejudices by the force of that public opinion to which it gave birth, obliterated all privileges, abolished all parliaments, charged the form of all property, as well as the sign of all value, and made a perjured king its prisoner. —Nothing was wanting to immortalize thas assembly, but to have delivered France from the calamity of kingly government, and to have relieved you from the duty of judging the last of your kings. 
HUSKISSON 2257 “Invested, from pom origin, with the most unlimited confidence by your fellow citizens, you hesitate in the first step. 
HUSKISSON 2258 “ Am I then no longer in the midst of that national convention, whose honourable mission it was to destroy kings‘and royalty ? 
HUSKISSON 2285 I am, &c, 
HUSKISSON 2340 To the executive power, which is implicitly obeyed, if not anticipated in that parliament ?—Or to ourselves, represented in some meeting of delegates, for the especial purpose of reform, which we suppose you understand by the term, CONVENTION ? 
HUSKISSON 2359 I did not; but I was present. when it was executed. 
HUSKISSON 2361 I seized them myself. 
HUSKISSON 2363 I did. 
HUSKISSON 2365 It is. 
HUSKISSON 2374 It is, In whose hand-writing is the letter ?—My own. 
HUSKISSON 2376 Yes, 
HUSKISSON 2378 I cannot take upon me to say ay at the length of time. 
HUSKISSON 2380 Yes. 
HUSKISSON 2382 I should not know it but from my own handwriting at the bottom,—I should not know it to be the same otherwise. 
HUSKISSON 2384 I do not know it for any other reason—here are a vast many interlineations which I cannot bring to my recollection at all. 
HUSKISSON 2386 It appears like a paper Iwas to transcribe; there are a great many interlineations in it. 
HUSKISSON 2388  I cannot. 
HUSKISSON 2390 That I cannot tell. 
HUSKISSON 2393 I do not. 
HUSKISSON 2450 In order that they may be always ready, for the perpetual reference of the members of this society, during the continuance of the present unfortunate war; and that, in perpetuam rei memoriam, they may be printed together, in one sheet, at the Happy conclusion of it; which happy conclusion, according to the present prosperous Pearances, we hope and believe not to many months distant. 
HUSKISSON 2484 Your enemies are the enemies of public liberty: the men whe are conspiring against the happiness of mankind. —The cause in which you embarked, and to which you have borne an honourable testimony, is worthy of every exertion, and its importance to the world too great to expect its Lig Sibel without sppecition: 
HUSKISSON 2489 A full and fait representation of the people of Great Britain we seek, with all the ardour of men and Britons; for the sake of which we are not only ready to act with vigour and unanimity, but, we trust, prepared also to suffer with constancy. , 
HUSKISSON 2499  Whether they concur with us in seeing the necessity of a spcedy convention, for the purpose of obtaining, in aconstitutional and legal method, a redress of those grievances under which we, at present, labour, and which can Resolved, That those who imitate his; dress of the London Corresponding Soci: example, deserve his fate. be inserted in the books of this sone 7 
HUSKISSON 2501 In order that ti. chair. be always ready, for the perpetual 1. 
HUSKISSON 2510 I found this printed pamr. Adams’s. 
HUSKISSON 2524 To obtain which, in the way pointed out by the constitution, has been and 1s the sole object of this society—For this we are ready to hazard every thing; and never, but with our lives, will we relinquish an object which involves the happiness, or even the political existence of ourselves and posterity. 
HUSKISSON 2581 I am, with respect and esteem, your equal brother, homas Frsus Pacuge. “ Surprize, Spithead, April 16, 1794. 
HUSKISSON 2586 because nothing but its ruining last struggle will rouse mankind trom their idle dream of security. They regard wet, they pily not its present victins. They off evil far from themseives, and enceovertakes them suddeniy, ‘ when their etrencth is gone, and there is none -“ shut ep or left.’ Hold fast therefore what “you have attained. Your association alone ean prevent the dreadful consequence of such fadifference. Unirinc Love is the strength, 4 well as solace of mankind. 
HUSKISSON 2597 By order of the society, 
HUSKISSON 2634 I shall produce a letter of the prisoner desiring that constitution to be drawn up, 
HUSKISSON 2664 Felix Vaughan, delegate. 
HUSKISSON 2666 I am sure it would have a good effect upon the public, atid likewise the rotten boreughs in Cornwall; when those papers were read in our society in its infant state; (but, by-the-by, it is scarcely out of leadi But do not let a doubt rembin with us of success) they were fired with indigunjust and unequal repremany never heard of any such thing. —If our society were so affected, by the tens of thousands of the people of this nation would be equally so, if they were informed of the existence of those evils ; for some of them (in my opinion) are the most glaring that can be exhibited to the public.—Excuse me for taking such liberty with you.—I remain, sir, your and the society’s that mentions t strings now ; 
HUSKISSON 2678 Equality before the law, whether in claiming its protection, or submitting to its sentence. Freedom to publish his opinion, to exercise his religious worship without molestation or restriction, and to enjoy his property, subject pay to such contributions as may be impartially levied for the public service. 
HUSKISSON 2686 though teo evidently calculated to disarm the nation, may in general be attributed to the same restriction :, by them, even the farmer, on whose property the game is fed, is robbed of every constitutional right of a Briton, and subjected to the brutality of a bashaw in the form of a country justice, from whom there is no appeal. 
HUSKISSON 2699 Form of Admission and Duty of a Menter, 
HUSKISSON 2716  The Organization and Power of a Division. 
HUSKISSON 2731 The Committee of Delegates. 
HUSKISSON 2739 The Select Committee. 
HUSKISSON 2748 The Council. 
HUSKISSON 2754 Of Accusation and Trial. 
HUSKISSON 2771 I am. 
HUSKISSON 2773 A bookseller. Look at those books, anid see whom they appear to be printed by [Showing the witness copy of the large and of the siall edition of te Second Part of the Rights of Man, and the Letter to the Addressers.]?—They are printed fur my husband. ‘ ‘Do you know Mr. ‘LLomas Paine?—Yes. 
HUSKISSON 2775 I believe he was gone out af Englaud when they were printed.—I fancy so. 
HUSKISSON 2777 Yes. 
HUSKISSON 2779 lrom June to September, 1792. Did you ever see any of the sheets of that work while the printing was going on?—Yes, I have. 
HUSKISSON 2781 At our houss. 
HUSKISSON 2783 No—he does Hot print. 
HUSKISSON 2785 I cannut say I saw them printing, if that is the question. 
HUSKISSON 2787 Yes, proof-sheetsIpave. Were they brought to your husband's house. at the time Mr. Paine was in England ?—They were. ‘ 
HUSKISSON 2789 Yes. 
HUSKISSON 2791 There was tu have been; but I never had any profit: Mr. Paine told me that ke had told Mr. Johnson we were to receive the profit, 
HUSKISSON 2793 The small one. 
HUSKISSON 2795 Mr. Paine himself—He told me the. profit of the small one was to be divided between Mr. Symonds and my husband, iid je Paine come our house at the tume of the printing, gn Ou “aD: versation with bin ‘alieut itt—He iodeed ‘at my house at the time.—The small edition. wag published after he Ipft England; the large, one, I believe, did not make its appearance; but some of the proot-sheets I had seen before he went away; but it was not published before he left Eugland. 
