JURYMEMBER 1010 I live at Marybone, and am rather an invalid, but I would rather go home. 
JURYMEMBER 2917 Did you go to Scotland with this money 
JURYMEMBER 2919 pay, Pens Tit you see him at Edinburgh
JURYMEMBER 2921 How were your own expenses defrayed
JURYMEMBER 2923 Whom did you receive the money immediately from
JURYMEMBER 2925 Who is he 
JURYMEMBER 2927 Was he a member of the Constitutional Society there 
JURYMEMBER 2929 Do you remember any person of the name of Yorke or Redheadbecoming a member of that society, before you are up your place as secretary 
JURYMEMBER 2931 Have you ever known him by any other name
JURYMEMBER 2933 Do you know where Gale, the printer, is now 
JURYMEMBER 2935 ‘f Has he ceased to be seen at Sheffield 
JURYMEMBER 2937 You knowa person of the name of Yorke
JURYMEMBER 2939 Have you known him before or since by any other name 
JURYMEMBER 2941 He attended the meeting of this society 
JURYMEMBER 2943 Since the time that he became a member of the society at Sheffield, did he attend the meetings pretty regularly 
JURYMEMBER 2945 Did he take any active part in the proceedings of the meetings when he did attend
JURYMEMBER 2947 Do you recollect the subject of his exhortations 
JURYMEMBER 2949 Did you ever hear him mention the subject of arms
JURYMEMBER 2951 What were the means that he recommended to the society to carry into effect the objects they professed to be desirous of attaining '—A. parliamentary reform. 
JURYMEMBER 2952 What were the means to be used? 
JURYMEMBER 3266 And pointed 
JURYMEMBER 3268 Juryman.—In the form and shape of a bg ho 
JURYMEMBER 3695 It was in a ball was it not
JURYMEMBER 3769 He would go up with them to London, and what then
JURYMEMBER 4185 Whom did you mean by the they 
JURYMEMBER 5224 What date was this 
JURYMEMBER 5226 If who could resist the first shock
JURYMEMBER 5228 Did they give any reason why the first shock being resisted, there would be no fear afterwards 
JURYMEMBER 5230 ‘Whom was that additional pay to be offered by 
JURYMEMBER 5232 Do you remember any observation that Hillier made upon that additional pay being offered to the army with respect to the comparison of sixpence a-day with any other sum
JURYMEMBER 5234 Whether any of the persons present at the time that these observations were made, and these facts stated, made any objection to them 
JURYMEMBER 5236 Those who conversed were not in liquor 
JURYMEMBER 5238 Those to whom the observations were addressed, except the one who took no part, were they sober 
JURYMEMBER 5240 Street, and his conversation was so violent, and he spoke so loud, that I was obliged to check him, and told him the people in the street were hearing him. 
JURYMEMBER 5241 Do you know a person of the name of Baxter 
JURYMEMBER 5243 Was he a member of the London Corresponding Society 
JURYMEMBER 5245 At other times since that, have you heard any observation from Hillier or Baxter, upon the subject of arming? —On the 9th of May was the most material conversation I had with Baxter, that was at Hillier’s house; he said he had been with an officer who had been lately. 
JURYMEMBER 5246 Who were the persons present besides Baxter 
JURYMEMBER 5248 Whom were you speaking of by the name of Stone 
JURYMEMBER 5250 Did you understand he had been examined before his majsty’s privy council
JURYMEMBER 5252 Were they wanted to propagate them 
JURYMEMBER 5254 Did he tell you what description of the army he had been more successful with than the other
JURYMEMBER 5922 Was it that same evening you have been speaking off—No, I am not speaking of that same evening. 
JURYMEMBER 6672 What are they ? 
JURYMEMBER 6697 Was this a meeting of delegates 
JURYMEMBER 6699 Was any thing done there 
JURYMEMBER 6701 ‘one as far as we 
JURYMEMBER 6702 Who was Thompson 
JURYMEMBER 6704 Coventry-street, I forget the name of the pce: He was go oto Franc thet tine think. His distress upon what occasion 
JURYMEMBER 6706 —Mr..Harvey, an attorney of the 
JURYMEMBER 6707 ‘emple, her friend, sixteen delegates met, and col. lected in the whole 12s 6d. for her, and it was to be recommended to each division, but as a body they do not assist any body—There was a motion came forward then, for a declaration to the public, but objected to by two divisions, saying, power supersedes the laws, or, as it suits them, leaves those lawsdormant—sather have a constitution without a king than a king without a constitution. 
JURYMEMBER 6708 A declaration of what 
JURYMEMBER 6773 Whom is that from 
JURYMEMBER 6775 id Margarot say any thing, make any obsecralion as to the committee of delegates 
JURYMEMBER 7104 W hat was the subscription nation; there was then an adjournment tofor 7—The support of the delegates in Scotdinner, when ‘Thelwall was c nairman, andland: it was proposed to publish the names president. of those who had given evidence against the 
JURYMEMBER 7105 Were you present at the dinner
JURYMEMBER 7107 In the sarne house that day was it
JURYMEMBER 7109 ‘After the business was over, you adjournedthat time, to choose two sub-delegates to atinto a room to dinner; was it a public dinner? tend the perpetual committee, to watch the j i parliament every night, and all to meet every Thursday, but for the sub-delegates it was not carried. 
JURYMEMBER 7110 Which part was carried 2—A committee Was chose on that night, but I have not got the names of them, for the purpose of watching the parliamentary proceeding, but the subdelegates part was not carried ; it was propo sed that that committee should be made perpetual, but I have no memorandum whether that was carried or no. 
JURYMEMBER 7111 Was any proposal made for printing any thing 
JURYMEMBER 7113 You do not recollect any thing else 
JURYMEMBER 7115 You do not recollect any thing else 
JURYMEMBER 7117 Jere you present at any delegate mecting upon the 30th of January 
JURYMEMBER 7119 Was Mr. Hardy there 2—Yes—Division No. 11, recommended to divide the metropolis into divisions, and to open the divisions to all arts, and to request of all those who do not Belong to us, to subscribe for the delegates ; this was referred to the constitutional committee. 
JURYMEMBER 7120 What was meant by opening the divisions to all parts
JURYMEMBER 7122 Were any number of persons stated or agreed upon to compose these several meetin the same room, however I will not say that positively, but 1 did not dine with the large company; I was in an adjoining room with a few of the company who could not get seats ; I came into the large room after I had dined. 
JURYMEMBER 7123 ‘Was the prisoner in the room that you came into after you bad dined
JURYMEMBER 7125 Was Mr. Thelwall there 
JURYMEMBER 7127 What passed when Martin, and Thelwall were there, after you came in 
JURYMEMBER 7129 Were there any resolutions at any time made in reference to the generat objects of the society, proposed by Thelwall, and agreed to by the meeting, there assembled 
JURYMEMBER 8296 My lord, we are extremely willing to allow Mr. Erskine another hour, if ee lordship thinks proper. 
JURYMEMBER 10609 Have you the reply?! have it not here, but it was approving rey much of the answer. 
JURYMEMBER 10610 orders of the people. “ We are perfectly satisfied of the integrity “ No, 52, Frith-street, Lonen, and abilities of those respectable characters May 24, 1792. 
JURYMEMBER 10611 who constitute the Society of the Friends of the People, but if we may presume to lay before them some thoughts, we have had, respecting what method would be best to adopt for obtaining the gencral sense of the nation, before the proposed motion in the next session of parliament takes place, we'be leave, with great deference to that honourable society, to submit the following to their superior judgment; we believe, the most likely and effectual plan will be to establish a convention in London, by deputies from each county, or district, ‘xy which means the sentiments of the nation may be obtained without any confusion or disorder. 
JURYMEMBER 10612 “ Looking up to the Friends of the People as eur leaders, and directors, in the great and necessary business, we shall be happy, and esteem it a great favour, to receive any communication which they may vouchsafe to 
JURYMEMBER 10613 Sir; We beg leave to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, of the 14th instant, and to return you our thanks for a confident which, we trust, our future conduct will mest from our country. 
JURYMEMBER 10614 “We have received sincere pleasure, only from the firm and virtuous tone in which you have spoken your principles, but from te wise and temperate manner in which yo have limited their application to practice— We rejoice ‘that our sentiments, our Representatives, and our plans of reform are perfectly it unison with your ideas.’ The great body of the people corresponding to such ‘sea ments’ will equally confound the two opposilt classes of enemies to the public weal; thatit will defeat the hopes of those who would due the people into tumult, and that it will slee the slanders of those advocates of corruption, who haye laboured to render the caus 
JURYMEMBER 10615 Jiberty odious and terrible to all good citizens, by confounding it with principles of anarchy, end by Joading it with the obloquy of provoking civil commotion, and of en angering the destruction of a constitution justly NG nowned for the freedom and happiness whic! it has so long bestowed. You are pleased to say that ‘ you look up to the Friends of the People as your leaders and directors in this great business :’ authorized as we feel ourselves by this proffered guidance, and by that harmony of sentiment, which from the tenor of your letter, we must suppose to exist between you and ourselves, permit us to lay before you some ideas which are dictated by zeal for our common cause. The cause of liberty can never be endangered by the assault of its enemies, but may sometimes be exposed by the indiscretion of its friends; its principles are fourded on impregnable reason, and its enemies are, therefore; too dexterous directly, to attack them. It is not against the reasonings of the champions of corruption (for they have produced none), but it is against their craft and their misrepresentation that we have found it necessary to defend ourselves by the wariness of our language and our conduct. A similar wariness, as far as the authority of our opinion can extend, we must counsel all societies associated on similar principles, for the accomplishment of the same object, to preserve; accused as they are, in common with ourselves, of meditating one object and holding forth another, of seducing the people by a measure so specious and salutary as parliamentary reform, into other measures of desperate tendency and undefinable extent, we can only advise them to follow our example in honestly, and solemnly declaring that ‘ they make the preservation of “the constitution, on its true principles, the “foundation of all their proceedings’ and the measure of all their reforms
JURYMEMBER 10617 our language, as you will perceive from the roceedings which we transmit to you, has m cautious, because al) our views are moderate; we are persuaded that you have a similar moderation of views, and we earnestly exhort you to a similar caution in language. It is only, indeed, with Societies, who express the same ration of principles, and adopt the same wariness of language, that this society can entertain any correspondence, or promise any co-operation ; we have publicly disclaimed what we condemn, as well as avowed our real object, and on an occasion unsought for by us. In conformity with this principle we have. been compelled to decline all intercourse with the Society for Constitutional Information in London; for though we never wish to attack, nor pretend to dictate, we are certainly entitled to decline all intercoyrse with men whose views and principles appear to us irreconcileable with ottrs. 
JURYMEMBER 10618 “On the particular measure which you suggest for collecting the opinion of the people on the subject of reform, we do not feel ourselves yet prepared to decide; in a more advanced stage of the business it may become very fit matter for deliberation. 
JURYMEMBER 10619 “Permit us, sir, to conclude with congratulating you and congratulating our country, on the admirable principles which your letter contains, and on the intrepid moderation which it entitles us to expect from you: you will deprive our enemies of every pretext for counterfeiting alarms which they do not feel, and of every opportunity to defeat our measures by calumniating our intentions. (In name, and by order of the committee,) 
JURYMEMBER 10620 (Signed) “ C. Grey, chairman. 
JURYMEMBER 10621 o Samuel Ashton, esq. secretary to the Society for Constiei Information, in Shefeld. 
JURYMEMBER 12550 My lord, we wish to have a copy of the indictment to take out with us. 
JURYMEMBER 12551 be satisfied, that they may see 
JURYMEMBER 12555 My lord, we thank you, we shall not have occasion for any. 
JURYMEMBER 12556 Thomas Hardy set to the bar. 
