LAUZUN 616 This is one of the papers I seized at the prisoner's. 
LAUZUN 617 Alexander Grant said he believed it to be the prisoner’s hand- writing. 
LAUZUN 618 “Mr. Samuel Jackson, secretary, to the Manchester Constitutional Society. 
LAUZUN 619 “ Sir; The London Corresponding Society has this day directed me to acknowledge the receipt of your favour of the 14th of May, and to return their thanks to the Manchester Constitutional Society, for the readiness they express to enter into a correspondence with us, a8 also for the book of rules, &c. that accompanicd your letter. We should not so long have delayed profiting by their condesceasion, had any thing worthy communication 
LAUZUN 620 Buchanan at occurred; the first slender opportunity that offers we eagerly seize, and beg your acceptance of the enclosed dozen copies of an address to the public, which we hope will meet your approbation. 
LAUZUN 621 “J have the pleasure of informing you that our society increases daily, and that the people in general begin to divest themselves of their deep rooted prejudices, the ple miud attends more calmly and attentively now than formerly to proposals for a parliamentary reform; most men see the necessity of it, but unfortunately, many are yet over-cautious in engaging their assistance towards it: however, I believeImay venture to assert that partial interest will suon give way to public good
LAUZUN 623 “ September 4th, 1792. 
LAUZUN 624 Indorsed “ Copy of a letter to Manchester, Sep. 4, 1793. 
LAUZUN 625 This is one of the papers I found in the house of the prisoner. 
LAUZUN 642 I found this paper in the prisoner’s house. 
LAUZUN 643 he London Corresponding Society's Address and Resolutions of the 24th of May, 1792; reprinted and distributed gratis. Assured that man, individual man, may justly claim liberty as his birthright, we naturally conclude that, as a member of society, it becomes his indispensable duty to preserve inviolate that liberty for the benefit of his fellow citizens, and of his and their posterity. For, as in associating, he gave up certain of his rights, in order to secure the possession of the remainder, and polunterily yielded up only as much as was necessary for the ral goud—so he may not barter away the liberties of his posterity, nor desert the common cause by tamely and supinely suffering to be purloined from the people of whom he makes a part, their natural and unalienable nicuTs oF RESISTANCE TO OPPRESSION, and Of SHARING IN THE GOVERNMENT OF THEIR COUNTRY ; without the full and uninterrupted exercise of which ricuts, no man can with truth call himself or his couatry free. 
LAUZUN 644 “ Yet of late, the very men who have dared to oppress the nation, have also dared to advance, that edf resistance to their oppression is illegal; while on the other hand, rraup or FORCE, sanctioned by custom and blind submission, has withdrawn, and now withholds, from a very great majority of the tax-paying, industrious, and useful inhabitants of Great Britain, the arcu of sharing in the governthe management of their own interests. 
LAUZUN 645 he few who are now permitted to elect representatives, and those who are chesen by this small number of electors, disgrace the country at large by buying and selling votes, by corrupting re being corrupted—the former by their behaviour at elections, and the latter by their conduct in the senate—more than sufficient to prove, that THE NATION IS UNREPRESENTED, and that THE PRESENT SYSTEM JS TOTALLY uNconstTITuTIoONAL—if by the word conetitue tion, any thing is meant. 
LAUZUN 646 “ Roused at last from their torpor, and i god remedy the evil,—various, numerou: and respectable societies have been form by the peuple, in different parts of the kings dom, several have also arisen in the metro polis; and among them the London Corresponding Society, with modesty, but with firm. ness, claim the attention of their country to the following resolutions ; 
LAUZUN 647 “ Resolved, 
LAUZUN 648 “ I. That every individual has a right to share in the government of that society of which he is a member, unless incapacitated. 
LAUZUN 649 “ II. That nothing but nonage, privation of reason, or an offence against the general laws of society, can incapacitate him. 
LAUZUN 650 “ III. That it is no Jess the riont than the puty of every citizen to keep a watchful eye on the government of his country, that the Jaws by being multiplied do not degenerate into oppressiwn; and that those who are entrusted with the government, do not substitute privute interest for public advantage. 
LAUZUN 651 “ IV, That the people of Great Britain are not effectually represented in parliament. 
LAUZUN 652 “ V. That in consequence of a partial, unequal, and therefore inadequate representation, together with the corrupt method in which representatives are elected; oppressive taxes, unjust laws, restrictions of liberty, and mgsting the public money, have nuied. 
LAUZUN 653 “ VI. That the only remedy to those evils, is a fair, equal, and impartial representation of the people jn parliament. 
LAUZUN 654 “ VII. That a fair, equal, and impertial representation tan never take place untill alt partial privileges are abolished. 
LAUZUN 655 “ VIII. That this society do express their abhorrence of tumult and violence, aiming at reform, not anarchy, reason, firmness, and unanimity, are the only arms they themselves will employ, or persuade their fellow citizens to exert, against ABUSE OF rOwER. Signed by order of the committee, 
LAUZUN 656 , Harpy, secretary. “ April ed, 1799. “ The London Corresponding Society to the 
LAUZUN 657 Nation at large. 
LAUZUN 658 “ Whereas it is notorious, that very numerous, burthensome, and unnecessary taxes are laid on the ns and families of us and others, the industrious inhabitants of Great Britain, an exceedingly great mejority of whom are, notwithstanding, excluded from all representation in parliament. 
LAUZUN 659 And as upon inquiry into the cause of this grievance, which is at once an obstruction to our industry, and diminution of our property, we find that the constitution of our country (which was purchased for us at the expense’of the lives of our ancestors) has, hy the violence and intrigue of criminal and designing men, been injured and undermined in its most essential and important parts: but particularly in the House of Commons, where the whole of the supposed representation of the people is neither more nor less than an usu power, arising either from abuses in the mode of election and duration of parliaments, or from a corrupt property in certain decayed corporations, by means of which the liberties of this nation are basely bartered away for the private profit of members of liament. 
LAUZUN 660 “ And as it further appears to us, that until this source of corruption shall be cleansed by the information, perseverance, firmness, and union of the people at large, we are robbed of the inheritance so acquired for us by our forefathers: and that our taxes, instead of nang lessened, will go on increasing: inasmuch as they will furnish more bribes, places, and pensigns to our minister and members of parliament. 
LAUZUN 661 “It being resolved by us, the members of this society, to unite ourselves into one firm and permanent body, for the purpose of informing ourselves and others of the exact state of the present parliamentary representation— for obtaining a peaceful but adequate remedy to this intolerable grievance—and for corresponding and co-operating with other societies united for the same objects, the following regulations for the internal order and governsion shall divide again, til it amount to double such number of members; at which time notice shall be given to the committee of delegates hereafter mentioned, by the them delegates of such division. 
LAUZUN 662 «Fourthly. That each division shall meet weekly, on any evening (Thursday excepted) at some house to be chosen by themselves, and appoint a chairman for the Bas order thereof; and also shatl name a delegate as hereafter mentioned. 
LAUZUN 663 “ Fifthly. That each member shall pay te the secretary‘of his division one penny per week, or one shilling and a penny per quarter; which shall be credited to the account of such member in a book to be kept for that purpose. That all mony paid shall be transmitted monthly, by delegate of such’ division, to the treasurer, who is to account with the body of delegates for the same, onthe four usual quarter-days. 
LAUZUN 664 “ Sixthly. ‘That the sums so paid to the said treasurer shall form one commen stock, to be applied by ‘the said delegates in the postage of letters, in stationary, and in printIng such matters as may be good for the imformation of the society. But that before any expense whatever shall be incurred, the said delegates shall inquire of the treasurer what balance he has in hand. Seventhly. That the delegates so appointed shall meet on Thursday in every week, and shall continue in office for three months; subject, however, to be recalled or superseded by their several divisions befgre the expiration of that time, if thought necessary. ‘That being assembled, they shall name a chairman and secretary, who shall both sign ail the public acts of the society. 
LAUZUN 665 “Eighthly. That sueh delegates so assembled, shall in the first place communicate ment of our society, have been unanimously adopted: 
LAUZUN 666 “First. That every person, before he is admitted, shall be proposed by two members, and shall answer in the affirmative to the three following questions, viz. 
LAUZUN 667 “ Question . Are you convinced that the parliamentary representation of this country is at present inadequate and imperfect ? “Q. 11. Are you thoroughly persuaded that the welfare of these kingdoms requires thot every person of adult years, in possession of his reason, and not incapacitated by crimes, should have a vote for a member of parliament ? 
LAUZUN 668 “Q, TIL. Will you endeavour, by all justiftable means, to promote such reformation in parliament ? 
LAUZUN 669 “ Secondly. That the whole body shall gounder one common name of the Londox Corresponding Society, united for the reform of parliamentary Representorign. 
LAUZUN 670 hirdly. That for the more easy and orderly-proceeding of the society, it be separated into as many divisions as there shall be thirty members to make up the number requisite for such division, And that no divi- i the wishes of their several divisions, relative to any objects of the society. Thatthey shall be authorized to answer any correspond which may require immediate attention ; an afterwards, that each delegate shall report the same to his respective division. Also, that they shaH consider of the general state of the society: but shall .on no account publish any new principle, or set of principles, until the same shall be approved by a majority of the individual members of the society at large. 
LAUZUN 671 “Ninthly. That it shall be necessary for two-thirds of the said socesiet to form a committee for the dispatch of business. And, enthly. That these resulutions and regulations be printed for the members of the society, and that a copy be given to cach member on his admission. 
LAUZUN 672 “ Maurice Marcarot, chairman. 
LAUZUN 673 “ Thomas Harpy, secretary. 
LAUZUN 674 “ Forasmuch as it is possible that the grounds of our complaint may be denied, and that our views and principles may be misrepresented, we desire that every one will seriously consider and treasure in his memory the state of scandalous facts which follow
LAUZUN 676 Let him then ask himself, whether it be the art of a good citizen to sit quiet under such abuses, which have not only increased, but are at this moment increasing; and which ought therefore to be remedied without delay. ill the reign of Henry Gth it was not necessary for the inhabitant of a county to have a freehold estate of 40s. a year, in order to vote for the representative of his county. But the statute of that king, passed in the year 1429, under pretence of preventing disputes at elections, most unjustly deprived a t part of the commons of this nation of the right of consenting to those taxes which, moiwithstanding, they were compelled to pay, just as if such right had not been taken them. 
LAUZUN 677 “ Till the reign of queen Anne, is was not pecessary for the inhabitant of a county to have 600. a year, freehold or copyhold estate, in order to his being elected the representative of his county. But the statute of that queen, posed in the year 1710, under pretence of the freedom of parliament, excluded all persons not possessed of such a property from our representation, whatever be their principles, their abilities, or their integrity. 
LAUZUN 678 ill the reign of William Srd parliaments were of gicur to be called once a year, or oftener ifneed be. Butthe statute of that king, passed in the year 1694, under pretence of calling them more frequently, enacted, that they should be holden once in three yeurs at the least. 
LAUZUN 679 “ Till the reign of George 1st, parliaments were therefore of three years duration. But the statute of that king, passed in the year 1715, under pretence of a ‘restless faction’ then existing in the nation, usurped a power of enacting, that ‘ parliament should respectively have continuance for seven years.’ 
LAUZUN 680 “As for the supposed representation of the people, which 1s called the ‘ Commons of England in Parliament assembled ;’ 
LAUZUN 681 he county of Cornwall contains in itself alone the privilege of sending forty-four members to parliament, which is just one less in number than those of the whole kingdom of Scotland, containing upwards of three millions of people. 
LAUZUN 682 “ Of these forty-four supposed representatives, two are elected by the frecholders of the county: the rest sit for twenty-one corporation towns; of which 
LAUZUN 683 Electors. Property of Launceston -- 10 - Lord Elliot Leskeard:- 9 Ditto Lestwithiel-. 7 - Duke of Northumberland Truro --- 13 -- Lord Falmouth Bodmyn --
LAUZUN 685 Tregony - 50 Lord Hertford 
LAUZUN 686 Bossiny 20 Lord Bute 
LAUZUN 687 St. Ives 60 Mr. Pracd 
LAUZUN 688 Fowey --- 26 Prince of Wales, &c. St.Germains 6 -- Lord Elliot 
LAUZUN 689 St. Michael-- 14 -- DukeofNorthumberland Newport -St. Mawes -- 15 -- Marquis of Buckingham Callingham-- 30 Lord Falmouth 
LAUZUN 690  80 Lord Lovaine 
LAUZUN 691 Electors 453, Members 42.“ To these we might add, of the same description, 28 corporations, consisting of 354 electors, which send 56 members to that House of Commons, which is so frequently and so falsely called the democracy of the nation; while the towns of Shetheld, Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds, Wolverhampton, &c. containing above three hundred thousand people, have no electors or representatives whatever. 
LAUZUN 692 “ Upon the whole it appears, that 257 supposed representatives of the People making a majority of the House of Commons, are returned by a number of voters, not exceeding the thousandth part of the nation. 
LAUZUN 693 “ But as Providence has aul furnished men, in every station, with faculties necessary for judging of what concerns themselves, shall we, the multitude suffer a few, with no better right than ourselves, to usurp the power of governing us without control? Surely not'!—Let us rather unite in one common cause, to cast away our bondage; being assured, that in so doing, we are pro tected by a jury of our countrymen, while we are discharging a duty to ourselves, to our country, and to mankind. Ordered that the secretary of the society, do transmit copies of the above to all the societies in the nation, engaged in the same cause. 
LAUZUN 694 “ London, May 24, 1792. 
LAUZUN 695 “ Address from the London Corresponding: Society, to the Inhabitants of GreatBritain, on the subject of a Parliamentary Reform, 
LAUZUN 696 “ Fellow Citizens,—Of every rank and of every situation in life, rich, poor, high or low; we address you all as our brethren, on a subject of the highest importance, and most intimately connected with the welfare of every individual who deems liberty a blessing, who partakes in the prosperity of his country, and who wishes to transmit as much of either as he possibly can, to posterity. 
LAUZUN 697 “ Uninfluenced by party pique or selfish motives—no ways affrighted at the frowns of power—not in the least awed by the evidently hostile preparations of a much alarmed aristocracy, we, the London Corresponding Society, united with a view of obtaining a Tuoroucn PariraMentary RerorM, anxiously demand your serious and most collected attention to the present vitraTED state of the British government, we entreat you to examine coolly and impartially the Numerous abuses that prevail therein, their destructive consequences on the poor, and their evil tendency on all; as also the rapidity with which these abuses increase both in number and magnitude. 
LAUZUN 698 “ We next submit to your examination an effectual mode of putting a stop to them, and of thereby restoring to our no less boasted than impaired constitution, its pristine vigour and punty: and we thereunto warmly solicit the junction of your efforts with ours. 
LAUZUN 699 his great end however we believe attainable, solely, by the whole nation deeply impressed with a sense of its wrongs, uniting, ane as it were with one voice demanding of those to whom fur a while it has entrusted its sovereignty, a restoration of, annuALLY ELECTED PaRLIAMENTS, UNBIASSED AND UNBouGut ELEctIoNs, AND AN EQUAL RepreSENTATION OF THE Wuoitr Bopy oF THE Pzopte. 
LAUZUN 700 “ Leaving to the enemies of freedom, all violent, tumultuous, and unconstitutional proceedings, we invite you to. peaceful, wellregulated, and neighbourly meetings, wherein Sealtatcods worthy citizens may as honest men, as good patriots, in a reasonable and sensible manner, laying aside prejudice, seriously and earnestly take into consideration their rights, and the welfare of the present and succeeding generations. 
LAUZUN 701 “ As men can never barter away the rights of their posterity —as eneroachmentson liberty or property cease not to be grievances from their being customary and of Jong stenting and ag a grievance is not the less felt for being denied by those who cause it—fceling grievances enormous,—seeing our liberties encroached upon and endeavoured to be entirely purloined from us—as also that our plaints are derided by government, and ourselves unlawfully menaced by. those in power, we call upon you all, Britons, to remember your privileges as such, and to assert your rights as men—to pay all proper regard to your native freedom; and to consider that, being the property of no man, nor of any set of men, it is ighly disgraceful for you to suffer yourselves any longer te be thus enslaved and disposed of as cattle in a fair, as irrational beasts in a market, to the highest bidder. 
LAUZUN 702 “ Laying aside all pretensions to originality, we claim no other merit than that of reconsidering and verifying what has already been urged in our common cause by the duke of Richmond, Mr. Pitt, and their then honest party, years back; now differing from them, we support with candour and zeal (thereby op ourselves no courtiers) the banner eftruth already displayed against the oppressors of mankind, and we take a pride in acknowledging ourselves a part of that useful class ofcitizens-whioh placemen (pensioned with the extorted produce of our daily labour) and proud nobility wallowing in riches (acquired somehow) affect to treat with a contempt too degrading for human nature te bear, unless reconciled to it by the reflection, that, though their inferiors in rank and fortune, we equal them in talents, and excel them in honesty. “ Still, friends and fellow citizens, possessed of souls far superior to the evil spirit influencimg these oppressors, these debasers of mankind; instead of hating, we contemn them ; and our motive is not vengeance, but redress. “ A constitution we are said to possess, we are willing to believe it—if good, it allows redress to 2 complaining people—if excellent, as many assert, it must naturally point out the means thereof. Let it therefore be publicly and carefully examined—if it is really what it ought to be, it cannot be too well: known; if faulty, it cannot be too soon amended; nor can that be done by a more competent jud: the arte than the thus collected sense o! nation. 
LAUZUN 703 t is the right of every individual to be well acquainted with the laws that bind him ! but how is the peasant, the mechanic, the manufacturer, to obtain that necessary knowledge ; his time fully employed in labouring hard to provide a scanty meal for his family, and in earning wherewith to satisfy the frequent and peremptory demands of surly tax-gatherers, he has no leisure for suc intricate political researches ; and even was he, by stealing that leisure from his labour or his sleep, to acquire the desired insight—still with spirits depressed by his suffering, with fears increased by the clamorous threats of the pensioned all-devouring locusts in office, the sore-oppressed subject feels the remedy to be far out of his reach, and dreads the consequence of being even supposed to know how greatly he is wronged: Such being the forlorn situation of three-fourths of the nation, how’ are Britons to obtain information and redress? Will the court, will ministry, afford either? Will parliament grant them? Will the nobles or the clergy ease the peopte’s suffering? No. Experience tells us, and' proclamations confinn it, that the interest and the intention of power are combined to keep the nation in torpid ignorance! 
LAUZUN 704 “ The only resource then, friends and feHow citizens, villbe found in those societies which, instituted with a view to the public good, promote a general instruction of our rights as men, expose the abuses of those in power, and point out the only constitutional, the only effectual means of forwarding a public investigation, and obtaining a complete redress for a people in whose credulous good nature originated their present difficulties. 
LAUZUN 705 We will not hurt your feelings by a minute detail of our common grievances; you cannot be ignorant, friends and fellow sufferers, how generally power, place, pension, and'title, are the rewards uf men whose services to the court have been of the greatest prejudice to the country. You painfully feel the consequences; increased taxes, a great part of which are most vilely squandered; a heavy national debt, begun With a design of forming 
LAUZUN 706 & powerful and monied court-party ; contitued with nearly the same view, unto its ptesent enormous bulk, and from its commencement militating against our liberties! Too visible are the numerous encroachments on our rights, too common the insolence of office, the venality of magistracy, the pervereion of the laws, the letting loose the military on every occasion, and those occasions eagerly sought. The subject’s complaints derided—the one part of the nation turned into spies and informers against the other—the—but wherefore more? Is here not enough to prove beyond a doubt, that while we boast the best constitution, the mildest laws, the freest government, we are in fact slaves ! “ Yet, fellow citizens ! numerous as are our gieences and close rivetted as weighty to shackles on our freedom; reform one alone, and the others will all disappear. If we once regain an anually elected parliament, and that parliament to be fairly chosen by all, thetga will again share in the government of their country, and their then unbought, unbiassed 8 must undoubtedly select a majority of honest members, while the very few unsound ones, that may accidentally obtain seats, will, from the consideratiun of their annual dependance on the people, think it highly advisable to continue the disguise that procured them their election, and at least wear the mask of honesty—a mask neither at all times necessary, nor at all times worn, in &septennial parliament. “ Let no man imagine himself unconcerned in the proposed reform—let no one think so meanly of his situation or abilities, as to suppose his coming forward will be of no service to the cause of liberty! numbers, union, and Perseverance must in the end be crowned with success, while compared with the small efforts of each individual associating and thereby countenancing the demand of the cae) na be ana to its cons taoral nghts! how great will appear the advanta, resulting thertives — al “ An HONEST PARLIAMENT! 
LAUZUN 707 “An ANNUAL PARLIAMENT ! 
LAUZUN 708 “ A PARLIAMENT waerrin EACH INDIVIDUAL WILL HAVE HIS REPRESENTATIVE. 
LAUZUN 709 oy ten souk we “ fas schon a stored, the press free, the laws simpli jizes eniiin oed, juries independent, nealless places and pensions retrenched, immoderate salanes reduced, the public better served, taxes diminished, and the necessaries of life More within the reach of the poor, youth better educated, prisons less crowded, old age better provided for, and sumptuous feasts at the exine of the starving poor, less frequent. 
LAUZUN 710 not upon this, dear countrymen, as an enthusiastic vision; but rather let us together take a calm and reasonable review of such an liament assembled—let us in idea amtail their session unto even the short duration of thtee months in one year, of sixty-foor meetings for doing the annual business of the nation. Still five hundred honest men, meeting sixty-four times, with both intention aid capacity to serve their country, must do something, must employ their tinfe somehow. Contested elections, none or very few, and soon determined ; party debates, none, the interest of the people being one; long speeches much diminished, honest men seeking reason not oratory; no placemen in the senate, corrupt influence dies away, and with it all ious, obstinate, ministerial opposition to measures calculated fer the public good: detesting chicanery, oppression and injustice of every kind, this honest parliament, findin; that the laws wanted simplification a arrangement, would set about it, however destructive their labours might prove to the sordid interest of art ambitious judge, a prostituted council, a packed jury, or a vile herd of pettyfoggers, trading justices, bailiffs, or rune ne! 
LAUZUN 711 -“ Finding that a most extraordinary waste of public money had taken place under the different pretences of places, pensions, dontracts, armaments, subsidies, secret service money, &c. our honest and annual parliament would, after narrowly scrutinizing the same, retrench every sum, needlessly or wickedly laid out. 
LAUZUN 712 “ Recalling to their mind that wise and wholesome provision of the 12th of William 3rd, chap. 2, enacting, that all resolutions taken in the privy council shall be signed by such of the privy council as shall advise and consent to the same ; they would call for an immediate renewal of that long-suspended law, and by so doing, all destructive secret influence will be rooted up, and the people could then, at all times, discover who were their friends, and who their foes. 
LAUZUN 713 he people's parliament finding, that under various pretences grants of common land had been obtained by sundry persons, no ways to the benefit of the community, but very much to the distress of the poor, the same would be soon restored to the able, and the robbed peasant again enabled annually to supply his distressed family with en increased quantity of bread out of the profit arising from the liberty regained of grazing a cow, two or three sheep, or a brood of geese thereon. 
LAUZUN 714 “ With detestation would that parliament view any man enjoying the emoluments of six or seven places, either needless and overpaid, as requiring altogether but one officer, or else their several duties neglected, and the public thereby deprived of that service for which they pay their money. anieroas other reforms would undoubtedly take place, even in the first session of parliament so elected, dependent only on their electors the people. Untorn therefore by faction, undivided by party, uncorrupted by ministry, and. uninfluenced but by the gC 
LAUZUN 715 public ‘good, every transaction would tend to reform, and a strict economy, its natural consequence, might soon enable us to reduce our taxes; and by the integrity of parliament, that reduction would light upon such objects as best might relieve the poor. This to the people would prove an advantageous and a Qovel session, and to an honest parliament ot a tiresome one. 
LAUZUN 716 herefore Britons, friends, and fellow citizens, with hand and heart unite, claim whatis your right, persevere and be free; for who dare to withstand our justdemands! —oppression already trembling at the voice of iecividuale, will shrink away and-disappear for ever, when the nation united shall assert its privileges, and demand their restoration
LAUZUN 718 M. Maroanot, chairman, 
LAUZUN 719 . Happy, secretary. 
LAUZUN 720 “ Ordered, that the secretary of this society, do transmit copies of the above to all the societies in the natiqn, engaged in the same cause. 
LAUZUN 721 “ London, August 6, 1792. 
LAUZUN 727 I found this paper in Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAUZUN 737 I found this paper in Mr. Hardy's house. 
LAUZUN 738 “ Dear sir; In obedience to the wishes of the society here, I have the pleasure of aeknowledging the honour of your letter and the packet which the kindness of our brothers of the London Corresponding Society so opportunely presented us with. 
LAUZUN 739 “Itis doubly deserving. our tharks, as it shows your kindness, as it will be useful in the formation of our infant society. We stand much in need of your experience in this particular, and we doubt not of your best assistance. We are surrounded by a majority, 
LAUZUN 740 & formidable one indeed, im powcr, abilities, andnumbers ; but we are not dismayed. 
LAUZUN 741 “ We have carefully perused the addresses, and I am to observe on their contents in Be. neral, that the sentiments hardly rise to t! height which we expect from men sensible of their full claims tu absolute and uncontrollable liberty, i. e. unaccountable to any power which they have not immediately constituted and appointed. 
LAUZUN 742 “ These are our sentiments, whatever may be yours, though in the present state of polite cal knowledge 1t may be prudent not to avow them openly. We desire your sentiments on the means of accomplishing that object which we presume you have in view in common with us. e think it expedient that we should perfectly understand each other in the beginning, lest the appearance of disunica might furnish mattet of triumph to our enemies. We observe one expression, which mye “Numerous other reforms. would un doubtedly take place, &c. &c.’ But we ask how is that parliament to be chosen? Can we expect it from the present order of things? Would not all the evil be done away at once by the people assembled in convention? Does it appear probable that the odious laws which we complain of will be abolished any other way? o the eres arising from aristocracy be redressed while the retains its present authority in the legislature? Is she universal right of conscience ever to be attained while the . maintain their seat on the ? 
LAUZUN 743 “ Your thoughts on these important points we most earnestly desire may be transmitted to us as soon as possible; not directed as the last, we fear it will excite suspicion, Direct to Mr. Joseph Heamer, Petty Carr, Stockport, who is chairman occasionally in the absence of N. ‘Hibbert, who resides too far from hence 20 be at hand on emergencies
LAUZUN 745 I found this paper im Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAUZUN 746 he Friends of Universal Peace and of the Rights of Man Society. 
LAUZUN 747 “ Mr. Joseph Heamer. 
LAUZUN 748 “ London, 11th Oct. 1792. 
LAUZUN 749 “ Sir, With infinite satisfaction the Londan Corresponding Society’s committee perased your letter; they are happy to learn your steady determination, spite of all obstacles, to pursue that sole means of political felicity a perfect representation of the people. 
LAUZUN 750 “ With regard to our publications, our sentiments are expressed in as strong terms as prudence will permit; yet plain enough we Imagine to convince the public, that while we expect every thing from an honest and an annual parliament, ‘nothing short of such a semate chosen by the whole nation will satsfy us. 
LAUZUN 751 “ True generosity, the characteristic of this nation, and of all unperverted men throughout the globe, calling upon us to countenance, at this juncture, the arduous struggle of the French nation against despotism and aristocracy, these foes to the human race, we have resolved upon addressing the French National Convention. 
LAUZUN 752 “ Without entering into the probable effects of such a measure, effects which your socicty will not fail to discover, we invite you to join us, and to that end herewith you have .copy of our intended address ; if Fh approve the idea, and will concur in sending it, to return us, without delay, a copy ae by your president and secretary, or by the delegates, statiug each for how many persons he signe, we will then associate your body with ours, and with some others who have already assented to the measure, If, on the contrary, you disapprove that mark of zeal towards the 
LAUZUN 753 Ration that has hitherto undertaken to to mankind its just rights, please to communicate to us your objections—I am, sir, for the committee of delegates, pte &c. M. M. ch. 
LAUZUN 938 I found this paper in Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAUZUN 939 “4th March, 1793. 
LAUZUN 940 “ Sir; The London Corresponding Society have at present to acknowledge your last, and to answer more fully your preceding letter. 
LAUZUN 941 “ With regard to petitioning parliament, we are unanimous in the opinion that such a petition will not produce a reform; yet, from many considerations, we are now persuaded that, if every society in the island will send forward a petition, we shall ultimately gain ground; for as much as it will force the present members of the senate to repeatedly discuss the subject, and their deliberations printed in the ditterent newspapers, will most naturally awaken the public mind towards the object of our pursuit. The nation once informed that a reform in parliament is suught for from difierent quarters, gives rise to debates in the House of Commons, and is acknowledged by every rank to be wanting, will begin to exercise their own reason on this subject; arrived at that period, we presume our business will be nearly accomplished. Let us then closely follow up our Nottingham brethren ; let every society petition separately; let every weck furnish a fresh petition, and afiord a fresh debate. We seek to open the cyes of the public: petitions on our part, and rejections on the part of the ministry, will effectually do it: we therefore highly approve of your idea, and will ourselves folTow it up, and recommend it to all the other societies we correspond with; and, withal, we recommend to you that no time be lost in 80 doing. 
LAUZUN 942 “ With you, we lament the evils of an imprudent and inconsiderate war—a war rather eagerly sought for the advancement of private ends, than carefully deprecated from considerations of public good; a contest unfavourable to this country, whether either France or despotism gain the upper hand. We join with you in gratitude to those worthy members of either House who have endeavoured to avert this national calamity, to whom we have likewise returned our public thanks; and we remain, with sincerity and affection,—yourfriends and fellow-labourers. 
LAUZUN 943 Mr. Edward Lauzun—I found this paper in Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAUZUN 964 I found this paper in Mr. Hardy’s possession. 
LAUZUN 965 “ 10th June, 1793. “ Sir; It is with singular satisfaction the committee of the London Corresponding Society received tyour letter; they are very glad to see the spirit of freedom springing eee 
LAUZUN 966 Birmingham; and they make no doubt that the zeal of your society, and the increase of your numbers, will soon do away the stigma thrown on your town by the unjustifiable behaviour of a church and King mob. We are entirely of your opinion with regard to the necessity of a general union; and we believe, as you do, that when once the country shall have so united, the Neros of the day will be forced to yield to the just demand of a long and sore oppressed ene. 
LAUZUN 967 “ With pleasure we accept your proffered correspondence, and earnestly beg of you to let us hear from your society by every opportunity. We wish likewise you would point out to us some safe mode of conveyance for such informations and publications as we may think necessary to be transmitted to you. The post we no ways rely on, as many of our letters have already been intercepted. 
LAUZUN 968 “If any of the members of your society should have occasion to visit this metropolis, we hope you will not let him come without a letter trom you, and that while they stay here they will frequently assist at the meetings of our several divisions, and by thus associating, commence an union which we hope soon to see spread itself all over Britain. 
LAUZUN 969 “ We will not enter into a detail of our grievances; we are equally well informed thereon, and all alike thoroughly convinced, that nothing short of annual parliaments and universal suffrage can restore to us that degree of civil liberty we are justly entitled to, &c. &e. “M.M
LAUZUN 971 , H
LAUZUN 973 I found this paper in Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAUZUN 974 he Political Societies of Norwich to the secretary of the Londun Corresponding Society. 
LAUZUN 975 Indorsed, “ Received the 25th of June, 
LAUZUN 976 1793; answered the 25th of July, 1793. 
LAUZUN 977 “ Sir; I lately received your letter from Mr. , dated April 22, which, through multiplicity of business, we have omitted to answer — hope you will excuse the delay. We also received your friendly letter, prior to that, wherein you stated three propositions: first, a petition to his majesty, or to parliament, ora national convention, and ordered one of our committee to answer it. Should be glad if you will inform me whether it was attended to; I gave myopinion on the subject to the Constitutional Society of London, and found their ideas congenial to my own, viz. an address to the king—futile; a petition to parliament (as a conquered people)—tolerable; a national convention (if circumstances admitted)—best of all. To what an alarming crisis are we arrived !—the junto is forme and established—the people become a prey, and (to adopt the phrase of an Hibernian Apostate) are treated as a swinish multitude, except the privilege of fattening. Wars must commence at the caprice of individuals; «people torn from their houses to be butchered; 
LAUZUN 978 windmills must be attacked, at the risk of being carried over and dashed to atoms; the nation drained of its sustenance to support a league, &c. &c. &c. Many epithets may with great propriety be applied, excepting such as Fox, Sheridan, Grey, Erskine, Lansdowne, Lauderdale, Stanhope, Paine, Priestley, Tooke, Wharton, Macleod, Barlow, Mackintosh Cooper, besides many who have suffered under the iron hand of, &c. and when the people have complained, and humbly requested a removal of abuses, they have been treated with insult. - Alas! where is the majesty of the people? An indifferent observer would suppose it to center in stars and garters, ribbons, and costly apparel, palaces, coaches and horses, with all the trumpery of puerile amusements ; and were it not for their accursed consequences, we could bear with it; but when we consider how many sweat, and toil, and starve, to support it, how can we be ersuaded but that there is a contrivance tween the land owners and the merchant to hold the people in vassalage ? tor they eat up the people as they cat bread; the influence of the aristocracy and hierarchy is become ve alarming, for they have absorbed and swallowed up the people; buta rumour is spread from the south, and it is terrible to tyrants ; it stings their mind—it galls their flesh—and like Pashur, are a terror to themselves, lest the people should assert their rights, yours, &c. “ H. Buckie. “ Please to direct to H. Buckle. 
LAUZUN 980 I found this paper in Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAUZUN 981 “ London 25th of July, 1793. 
LAUZUN 982 “ Fellow Citizen; The London Corresponding Society have received, and read with pleasure, your letter of the 25th of June; but the answer which you mention to have been made to our three questions has not yet come to hand. We shall be glad to be informed in Pad next, whether it was ever putin the postoffice. 
LAUZUN 983 “ With regard to the questions themselves, however individuals may have made up their minds on them, the public seemed most to approve the mode of petitioning parliament. We accordingly acquiesced, and sent in a petition signed by near 6,000 persons. With this letter you will receive a copy of it; and with its fate you are doubtless not unacquainted. 
LAUZUN 984 “ While we agree with you, that the people are treated like swine, we are forced to acknowledge, that some a fap from their sloth and ignorance, scarce M deserve better usage; however, unceasingly labouring to meliorate their condition as well as our own, and convinced that a thorough parliamentary reform is the only means of effectuating it, we firmly pursue our purpose, and in the most conspicuous manner; under the eye of the court, in the middle of the metropolis, and in the very nest of place and pension hornets, the tavern where Reeves, the tool of the junto, holds his inquisitorial tribunal, have ately held a general meeting of the society, sent forth an address to the nation, and entered into some spirited resolutions; a few copies of which we desire you to accept, and promulgate as far and as wide as you can; at the same time rest assured, that the firmness displayed therein is not confined to words, but that on every occasion our society will he found foremost in asserting and recovering the liberties of their country. 
LAUZUN 985 “ Exhorting you, therefore, to throw aside all unavailing complaint, we wish you to occupy yourselves in instructing the people, in invoducing and maintaining order and regularity in your own society, and in forming a junction with all others associated for the same purpose throughout the nation, b keeping up a constant correspondence wit! them; but above all, orderly and courageously preparing yourself for the event; for as it is natural to suppose that those who now pre on the public will not willingly yield up their enjoyments, nor repossess us of our rights without a struggle, which by their behaviour in Ireland we have some reason to think they are meditating, and perhaps may intend to effect by means of those very foreign mercenaries who are now paid by the sweat of our brow, and whom, under some plausible retence, it would be no difficult matter to land on our shore. It may be more advantageous to humanity to show them at first, that their opponents are neither mob nor rabble, but an indignant oppressed people, in whom is not yet entirely extinct the valour of their forefathers. 
LAUZUN 986 “ Union and increase being then our only resources, let us diligently exert ourselves therein with zeal and patience, removing ignorance and prejudice with firmness, and a consistent behaviour; encouraging those who join us; and above all, avoiding little bickerings among ourselves, ever discountenancing selfish jcalousies and private animosities, and cordially joining with heart and hand in the common cause. 
LAUZUN 987 “Your neighbourhood must severely feel the dreadful consequences of an iniquitous, depopulating, and ruinous war; but you are not the only sufferers. From various parts of the country we learn, that the war abroad has already spread desolation at home; yet such is the blindness of some folks, that they talk of its being continued for years, Peace we wish to all men; but to such friends destruction. Let us hear from you soon, and let our future correspondence be more regular. We are with sincerity, fellow citizens, for the London Corresponding Society, as your friends and fellow labourers for the good of our country, M. M. TAH 
LAUZUN 1622 In Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAUZUN 1635 Yes. 
LAUZUN 1637 Yes. Are the entries of the proceedings of the society regularly made in these books?—Yes. e following proceedings were read from iv ae of the bosks} 
LAUZUN 1652 Yes. 
LAUZUN 1654 They were on the table. Open to the inspection of the members?—If they thought proper. 
LAUZUN 1656 The minutes of the former meeting were generally read the first thing in the proceedings of the next. 
LAUZUN 1671 Yes. 
LAUZUN 1673 I think I do. ‘ 
LAUZUN 1675 To the best of my recollection this is Kke his writing; I never saw him write. 
LAUZUN 1677 I have received notes from him. 
LAUZUN 1679 No. 
LAUZUN 1681  Becausedelivered things according to his order, therefore supposed them to come from him; but I never saw him write, so as to take particular notice. 
LAUZUN 1683 I do not know that I have, 
LAUZUN 1685 I did. 
LAUZUN 1687 This is one like them; whether this is one of the same books I cannot tell; here is my name to it, and it is like that which I published. 
LAUZUN 1689 I believe it is one of the books that I might publish. 
LAUZUN 1691 I cannot swear that it is; there were a great number sold that were not sold by me. 
LAUZUN 1693 It is one of the same as I published for Mr. Paine. Is it like the book you published? : 
LAUZUN 1696 Mr. Chapman printed part of it. Of the first part of the Rights of Man, Mr. Chapman printed the whole. This is the second art. 
LAUZUN 1698 No, I am only the publisher, 
LAUZUN 1703 We can carry it farther. 
LAUZUN 1722 Ycs; there is my name to it. 
LAUZUN 1724 Yes. 
LAUZUN 1740 There it was that the enemy, by beginning to conquer, put himself in a condition of being conquered. His first victories prepared him for defeat. He advanced till he could not retreat, and found himself in the midst of a nation of armies. 
LAUZUN 1746 A bookseller. 
LAUZUN 1748 I was. 
LAUZUN 1750 I did. 
LAUZUN 1752 A work intitled Rights of Man. 
LAUZUN 1754 I printed the first part and part of the second. 
LAUZUN 1756 The earlier 
LAUZUN 1758 I did not. 
LAUZUN 1760 I pened the first part entirely. 
LAUZUN 1762 I think I printed as far ee leur K, that is, I finished what we call the letter or signature of sheet I, which includes the 128th page; the larger edition, I had the copy of almost the whole of the remaining fart, and my people had composed it, or set it up in the type, but I did not conclude it, hat did you do with that part you did not finish ?—Returned it into the hands of Mr. Paine by a servant of mine. 
LAUZUN 1764 I do not think I saw Mr. Paine om the business after the work was quite finished. 
LAUZUN 1770 As the exercise of government recite talents and abilities, and as talents and abilities cannot have hereditary descent, it is evident that hereditary succession requires a belief from man, to which his reason cannot subscribe, and which can only be established upon his ignorance ; and the more ignorant any country is, the better it is fitted for this species of government. 
LAUZUN 1783 An Reritable crown, or an heritable throne, or by what other fanciful name such things may be called, have no other significant explanation than that mankind are heritable property. To inherit a government is to inherit the people, as if they were flocks and herds. 
LAUZUN 1785 By continuing this absurdity, man is perpetually in contradiction with himself’; he accepts, for a king, or a chief magistrate, or a legislator, a person whom he would not elect for a constable. 
LAUZUN 1787 “ This convention met at Philadelphia, in May, 1787, of which General Washington was elected president. He was not, at that time, connected with any of the state governments, or with con He delivered up his commission when the war ended, and since then had lived a private citizen. 
LAUZUN 1800 Whether the person be wise or foolish, sane or insane, a native or a foreigner, matters not. Every ministry acts upon the same idea that Mr. Burke writes ; namely, that the people must be hood-winked, and held in superstitious ignorance by some bugbear or other; and what is called the crown answers this purpose, and therefore it answers all the purposes to be expected from it. This is more than can be said of the other two branches. 
LAUZUN 1813 He has not done as Tam anxious for your aid and your com- ; his part. Ie has not perfurmed his promise pany, I wish you to hasten your Principlesandof a comparison of constitutions. He started overtake me. the controversy, he gave the challenge, and 
LAUZUN 1824 After quotin largely the manner in which a work, written in afrom the Rights cA Man, and declining to ples we of thinking and expression different to contest the princi: 4 wi he says, ‘ This will most probably be done at had been customary in England, would contained in that work, 
LAUZUN 1838 The only effectual jury in such cases would be, a convention of the whole nation fairly elected ; for in all such cases the whole nation is the vicinage. If Mr. Burke will propose such a jury, I will wave all privileges of being the citizen of another country, and, defending its principles, abide the issue, provided he will do the same ; for my opinion 1s, that his work and his principles would be condemned instead of mine. 
LAUZUN 1866 I am. 
LAUZUN 1868 I am. 
LAUZUN 1870 I really cannot answer that question. 
LAUZUN 1872 Yes, I do. 
LAUZUN 1874 It does, I published such a pamphlet. 
LAUZUN 1876 Yes, I do. 
LAUZUN 1878 I did. 
LAUZUN 1880 I had. 
LAUZUN 1882 I think I did. 
LAUZUN 1884 Whether he gave it to me or the printer I am not sure. 
LAUZUN 1886 The sale paid for it. 
LAUZUN 1888 I cannot recollect the contents of pamphlets I publish. suppose not, you publish a good many ?—I believe it to be that. 
LAUZUN 1890 I cannot say I have any doubt about it. 
LAUZUN 1892  No. 
LAUZUN 1894 Yes. 
LAUZUN 1896 I cannot tell. 
LAUZUN 1898 I cannot tell what you mean by many. 
LAUZUN 1900 Certainly I did —when that pamphlet was published it was supposed not to be a lihel, afterwards it was proved to be one. I beg to ask the Court whether I am obliged to answer that question? 
LAUZUN 1903 I did not publish it. T did not ask if you published it, or whether you distributed any of it, but whether any certain rumer of copies of that publication were sent to you by any body—I will assist your memory, were there not seven hundred sent to you?—I think there were some sent to me and forwarded into the country—a parcel was sent to me to convey to the coach, I believe. 
LAUZUN 1905 I do not know, but I suppose, from the printer’s. 
LAUZUN 1907 No. 
LAUZUN 1909 Perhaps five or six hundred— 
LAUZUN 1924 “ Among the probable evils resulting from the kingly office, the principal one, and indeed the only one that need to be mentioned, is the chance of its being held by a weak or a wicked man. When the office is hereditary, it is scarcely to be expected but thas this should always be the case. Considering the birth and education of princes, the chance of finding one with practical common sense, is hardly to be reckoned among possible events; nor is the probability Jess strong against their having virtue. The temptations to wickedness arising from their situation, are too povertul to beresisted. The persuasive arts of all their flatterers, the companions of their youth, the ministers of their pleasures, and every person with whom they ever converse, are necessarily employed to induce them to increase their revenue, by oppressing the people, whom they are taught from their cradle, to consider as beasts of burthen ; and what must almost insure the triumph of wickedness in their tempers, is, the idea that they act totally and tor ever without restraint. This is an allurement to vice, that even men of sense could scarcely resist. Impress it on the mind of any man, that he can do no wrong, and he will soon convince you of your misake this general summary of the evils arising from hereditary monarchy, under any restrictions that can be proposed, and place it on one side of the account, and state, on the other side, the. truth which I believe no man of reflection will hereafter call in question, That Kings can do no good, and the friends of Hiberty will no longer be in doubt which way you will decide the question -elative to that part of your constitution anall the reasonings of all the philo
LAUZUN 1926 “ But it-wil be said, F am too late, with all these observations, on the necessity of proscribing royalty from your constitution. The cause is already judged in the minds of the whole people of France; and their wishes will surely be the rule of your conduct. I suppose that, without being retmainded of your duty by a stranger, one of your first resolutions would be, to fix a national anathema on every vestige of regal power, and endeavour to wipe out from the human character the stain which it received with its veneration for kings and hereditary claims. But it requires much reflection, to be well aware to what extent this duty should carry you. There are many vices in your constitution, which though not apparently connected with the king, had their eae in regal ideas. To purify the whole code from these vices, and to purge human nature from their effects, it will be necessary to resort to many principles which appear not to have struck the minds of the first assembly. 
LAUZUN 1934 I found this letter in Mr. Hardy’s house among his other papers. 
LAUZUN 1935 “ Gentlemen, I have lately published a small treatise under the title of ‘A Letter to 6 the National Convention of France,’on the Defects in the constitution of 1791, and the extent of the Amendments which ought to beapplied.’ Although the observations contained in this letter are more particular plicable:to the French nation in the nie crisis of its government, yet, as the true principles of society are every where the same, their examination cannot be unseasonable ia any nation-or atany time. Believing, therefore, that-the subject of this treatise will not be thought foreign to the great object of your association, I present a copy of it to you, with the same confidence as f have done to the 
LAUZUN 1936 National Convention, .and to the Constitutional Society in London: a confidence arising from the full persuasion that the work ‘is founded in truth and reason. d takethe liberty at the same time to send you a copy of another publication, : intituled, 
LAUZUN 1937 “ Advice to the Privileged Ordere.’ The present disposition in Kurope towards a general revolution in the prineiple of government, is founded in a current of opinion too secon to be resisted, as well as too sacred to e treated with neglect. It is the duty of every individual to assist, not only in removing the obstructions that are found in the way of this revolution, but in ascertaining with as much precision as possible the nature of the object to be aimed at, and the consequences to be expected from the attainment. It is above all things to he desired that-the convictions to be acquired from rational discussion, should precede and preclude those which must result from physical exertion. ‘ 
LAUZUN 1938 “ Such, 1 believe, is the object of your society, and such is certainly that of your friend and servant, Jost Bartow. 
LAUZUN 1939 “ London, Oct. 6th, 1792. 
LAUZUN 1940 Addressed o the London Corresponding Society, care of Mr. ThomasHardy, No.9 Piccadilly.’ 
LAUZUN 1943 I cannot tell; but I really believe he was the sole author. 
LAUZUN 1945 Not a very arge sale ; not many more than a thousand, I believe. 
LAUZUN 1948 “ Mr. Burke, however, in his detence of royalty, does not rely on this argument of the compact. Whether it be that he is conscious of its futility, or that in his rage he forgets that he has use it, he is perpetually securing to the lass ground that has yet been heard of on which we are called upon to consider kings, even as & tolerable nuisance, and to support the existjog forms of government; this ground is the encral goud of the community. It is said to dangerous to pull down systems that are already turmed, or even to attempt to improve them; and it is likewise said, that, were they peaceably destroyed, and we had society to build-up anew, it would be best to create hereditary kings, hereditary orders, and exclusive privileges. 
LAUZUN 2670 I found this printed paper i Mr. Hardy’s house. papere [The following extracts were read from the said paper, intituled the Report of the Com
LAUZUN 2671 Tuos. Hanpy. 
LAUZUN 2672 mittee of Constitution of the London Corresponding Society, Printed for the use of the members.] ‘ 
LAUZUN 2673 “ Fellow Citizens , Knowing, from experience, that those who (through thre depraved state of what should be the representative body) are suffered to prey on the vitals of our country, derive the principal part of their success in opposing an equ: representation, from the active circulation of falsehoods, reSerine this, and other similar societies 3 we think it advisable, that you should give an explicit declaration of your PRINCIPLES and WISHES, which we conceive to be as follow : 
LAUZUN 2674 “1. That all men are by nature free, equal and independent of each other. 
LAUZUN 2675 “ 2. That, to enjoy all the advantages of civil society, it is not necessary that indivi duals should relinquish more of their natoral independence than is required to fulfil this injunction, Let the minority yield a friendly submission to the majority. 
LAUZUN 2676 “3. That no majority, however great, can justly deprive the minority of any part of their civil rights : wherever it is attempted, the social bond is broken, and the minority have a right to resist. 
LAUZUN 2677 “4. The civil rights of every individul are equality of voice, in the making of laws, and in the choice of persons by whom those laws are to be administered
LAUZUN 2679 “ 8. Submission to any measure does not imply silence as to the propriety or impropriety thereof. 
LAUZUN 2680 “6. Every power intrusted to a magistrate, implies a responsibility for the exercise of that power. 
LAUZUN 2681 “7. The foregoing are not new, but are the otizinal principles of English government, 
LAUZUN 2682 “8. The total departure from the princi of equality in the election of the legislative body, commonly called the House of Commons, is the chief cause why the people of Britain are now ceprasen kt the Lege offoregoii inciples ; a in place thereof, inbour cRderaemicied systema of extortion and monopoly. 
LAUZUN 2683 “9 The Corn act—is a grievance immediately resulting from the restriction of the choice of fepesonnaiyes, Pp men of ion 
LAUZUN 2684 3 by it the price of bread in ge Laas fe sometimes much more than doubled; for whenever this country happens to be blessed with an abundant season, a pe of the taxes under which we groan, is applied to encourage the exportation, and advance the price of com. Thus we pay one tex to government, to give the landed man an oppottunity of laying on another. The hackneyed pretence for this act is, ‘ the welfare of the farmer.’ The real intention ofit is, to enable, the monopolizers of farms, to pay enormous rents, : 
LAUZUN 2685 “10. Game laws
LAUZUN 2687 “11, Excise laws—and stamp creties (and the consequent systenr of spies and informers) equally repair to the professed principles the constitution, amd most extensive in their oppression ; ate often introduced merely as engines of corporation influence ; for in some instances, the produce of the tax does mot pay the expense of collection; were the sense of the nation fairly taken, it is impossible to believe but that whatever sum might be necessary for the public servite, it would be raised by means fess obnoxioas and less expensive, 
LAUZUN 2688 12. The mutiny act—which would never have existcd, had not the bulk of the people been excluded from representation. It reflects a charge of: hypocrisy on those who affect to bewail the late events in France, yet calmly view the defendcrs of their own country, subjected to every specics of fraud, insult, and cruelty. The military excellence of true republicans, in al! ages, proves it to be unnecessary. Convince a Briton, that he is about to fight for a country in which his rights are duly consulted, and the cat of nine-tails may be burnt by the hands ef the common hangman. 
LAUZUN 2689 “13. The impress service—equally cruel with the foregoing, is another effect of partial representation : it has lately been proved that the expense of this service, if applied to increase the seamen’s pay, would render impressing unnecessary; but it is more consistent with the government of a faction, to distribute the sum among the officers of corporations. 
LAUZUN 2690 “14. The ill effects of partial representation are not confined to men in private stations; we challenge contradiction when we assert that, in general, promotion, whether in the army, navy, or church, is the effect of parliamentary connection, and the reward of parliamentary prostitution. 
LAUZUN 2691 “15, We cannot entertain a doubt that th foregoing statement of grievances will be admitted as just by our countrymen at large, and also that an equal representation, by universal and‘annual suffrage, would tend immediately to redress them. It remains to prove that the difficulties said to attend such a scheme are merely the chimerical inventions of interested men. 
LAUZUN 2692 “16. Let us suppose all partial corporations (those badges FP eiavery abolished ; and consider the whole island as one corporation, divided into counties or cities, for the purposes of embodying and exercising militia, c. and for electing representatives, subdivided into districts, or townships, as nearly as convenient, in equal pruportion to the number of inhabitants. 
LAUZUN 2693 “ 17. Allow to each district, or township, one representative, and let it be subdivided into parishes, and every man entitled to a vote, be registered in the parish in which he resides. Large parishes may be subdivided into wards, or hamlets. 
LAUZUN 2694 “18, Let every voter give his vote in the arish in which he resides; let the votes be Fought in writing, and called for in succession, either alphabetically, by the name of the voters, or numerically by the wards and nuinbers of houses; either of these methods would prevent that source of riot, the practice of voting in party groups. 
LAUZUN 2695 “19, The truth of entry of every individual vote in each el would easily be examined, and the totals of the several parishes in each district so easily collected, that we scruple not to assert, a general election might be decided, with indisputable certainty, in twelve hours. 20. In saying the whole island should be considered as one corporation, we do nog wish to be understood as recommending that districts should choose their representatives from distant parts. On the contrary,’ we think the representative should always be a resident of the district, as his character would be better known to his constituents. Learsay characters are seldom any other than the blazouings of faction. 
LAUZUN 2696 “1. It is indispensable to good govern ment, that representatives should be paid for their service to the public. The want of oper and honourable reward, retards the exertion of laudable characters, and subjects the nation to the fraudulent and delusive practices of mock patriots. 92. ‘To those who are convinced of the propriety of the foregoing ideas, and only ask, ow shall we attain the practice of them? wa answer, dssociate. By so doing, you will better correct and strengthen each other’s opinions on the subject of liberty, and eventually abash the tools of corrupt influence and law, less power—effects which are not to be expected from the vague and desultory exertion ef individual opinions. 
LAUZUN 2697 laving thus stated’ what we conceive to be the sentiments of the society, we recoinmend that the members shall meet in divisions, consisting as nearly as convenient of thirty members each, and that the management of its affairs be vested in one COM MITTEE OF DELEGATES, one SELECT COMMITTERF, and one COUNCIL, subject to REFERENCE JO THE DIVISIONS and TRIAL BY JURY, as more particularly defined in the following sections : ; 
LAUZUN 2698 “ SECTION I
LAUZUN 2700 “4, Each candidate for admission into this society shall be proposed by a member, who shall either belong to the division in which the proposal is made, or be personally known as a member of this sucicty, to two members of such division. 
LAUZUN 2701 “Q, The secretary shall enter the name, pvesidence, and occupation of the candidate, together with the proposer’'s name, and num ber, in the minute book of the division, and the president shall put the following question to the proposer : . og 8 
LAUZUN 2702 “ Are you well acquainted with the candidate you propose, with his means of life, and his pelts! principles, and ure you well assured that his general character is such as will not be disgraceful to this society 
LAUZUN 2703 “3. Ifthe proposer shall answer’ the foreing question in the affirmative, the presient shall demand of the division, whether any member has any objection to the candiate. 
LAUZUN 2704 “ 4. If no objection satisfactory to the division shall be made, the pen shall put the following questions to the candidate: 
LAUZUN 2705 Are you convinced that every man who has attained to years of discretion, ts in possession of his reason, and not disqualified by crimes, ought to have a vote for a representative, and not more than one vote? 
LAUZUN 2706 “ Are ap convinced that the representation ought to be divided as nearly as possible in proportion to the number of electors 
LAUZUN 2707 “ Are you convinced that the election of rePpresentatives of the people ought to be annual ? 
LAUZUN 2708 “ Will you, by all justifiable means, endeapour to promote a reform in the parliament Of this country, agreeable to the principles which you have now professed a6. No member shall be allowed to stile himself, or any other, by any party name, whether intended to convey respect or disrespect. 
LAUZUN 2709 “7, All political appellations which do not in their immediate interpretation convey an idea of political sentiment or situation, are party names. The following do not fall under this objection, as will appear by their explanations : 
LAUZUN 2710 “ Republican,—One who wishes to promote the general welfare of his country. 
LAUZUN 2711 Democrat,—A supporter of the rights and power of the people. 
LAUZUN 2712 “ Aristocrat,—One who wishes to promote the interest of a few at the expense of many. 
LAUZUN 2713 “ Royalist,—Among the ignorant part of mankind, signifies, a person attached to regal government: among artful courtiers, it isa veil for their own aristocracy “ Loyalist,—A supporter of the constitution of his country. 
LAUZUN 2714 “ Citizen,—The ancient appellation given to the members of free states. Subject,—can only with propriety be applied to a member of a state, whose government has been instituted by foreign conquest, or the prevalence of a domestic faction. 
LAUZUN 2715 “SECTION II
LAUZUN 2717 “1, Each division shall meet once in a week, or any evening in the week, except Thursday and Sunday, 
LAUZUN 2718 “9, The hour and place of ‘meeting shall be at the convenience of each division, but must be announced to the constituted bodies. 3, Each division shall elect from its own members, a president, vice-president, secretary, assistant secretary, delegate and sub-delegate.‘ 
LAUZUN 2719 ea. Bach division shall be furnished with three books (viz.) one to bear the number of the division,—a similar book, to be called the supernumerary book of the same division,— and a third for entering minutes. 
LAUZUN 2720 “5, No division book shall contain more than 30 effective names; subject to variation as hereafter mentioned. 
LAUZUN 2721 «6. Members admitted after the division shall amount to 30, shall be entered in the supernumerary-book, but not before. 
LAUZUN 2722 ‘“7, As soon as the members entered in the supernumerary-book, shall amount to 16, they shall be entitled toa number as anew division: they shall determine the time and place of their future meeting; they shall receive a supernumerary-book, and a minutebook, and a new supernumerary book shall be delivered to the original division. 
LAUZUN 2723 “8. Members entered in any supernumerary-book while less than 16, shall be entitled to vote, and, in every respect, be considered as members of the division to which such supernumerary-book shall belong. 
LAUZUN 2724 “ 9, No new member shall have a vote the same sitting, im which he is admitted; oor transferred member the same sitting in which he is transferred. 
LAUZUN 2725 «10. Each division shall be allowed one shilling and sixpence per week for rent, furniture, &c. 
LAUZUN 2726 “11, Every member shall have liberty to introduce one stranger, provided such member shall answer that the sentiments of the stranger are similar to ours, and the same stranger shall not be introduced more than twice, exccpt for the purpose of admission as a member. 
LAUZUN 2727 “98. In case of persecution, and that the means provided by the VIIth, VIIIth, and 1Xth sections of this constitution, should not produce the cffect of re-establishing a representative body of this society for two weeks successively, every division shall have power to elect four persons, whose powers shall be the same as the four officers of the committee of delegates. 
LAUZUN 2728 “ Q4, The sole object of those four persons, shall be the reestablishment of the representative body, and they shall report progress weekly, and be weekly subject to revocation. 
LAUZUN 3834 I found bo these in Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAUZUN 6899 Yes. 
LAUZUN 6904 As you have mislaid your minutes of the 16th of May, I will not press you upon it.—I have the minutes of May the 16th here, No. 31, ComptonStreet. 
LAUZUN 6906 Yes ; 
LAUZUN 6909 A motion from the division No. 7, to draw up a remonstrance against the war; it was then said that Mr. 
LAUZUN 6913 it does not appear that any thing was. The next was a meeting of the delegates on the 23rd, at No. 31, Compton-street ; it was then proposed to calla peneral meeting, which would be an irrefragable proof of our being legally assembled, and would take away those reflections upon us, and dissipate the fears of the public: this was to be agitated at each division. 
LAUZUN 6915 I cannot tell. There were twelve delegates met; a letter from R. Littlejohn, dated 18th of May, in which he says, he was surprised that he was excluded the society ; his attachment is not to be bought or sold, and he would not give up the cause but with death ; this is what collected from that letter. Committee for drawing up an address to the public, &c.; then it was observed, that Le Brun’ letter to lord Grenville has altered the step; on that account it would appear as though we had some communication with France, therefore we ought to wait to see if any notice is taken of it. It was thought proper to refer the addresses to the public at that time, and it was referred for a week. 
LAUZUN 6917 It would appear as though we had some communication with France. The next meeting was on the 30th of May. I do not find any thing more than Mr. Hardy’s intending to make a motion that we should b: up for three months. 
LAUZUN 6919 It was not carried, but the society continued ; for I have areport on the 6th of June, in consequence of it. The next was a meeting of delegates of the 6th of Jume, 17938, at No. 31, Compton-street, there were three divisions that wished for Mr. Wharton’s motion in the House of Commons to be printed. 
LAUZUN 6921 I have no remark that any thing at all was done, notwithstanding it was so recommended. A public meeting was then talked of; to advertise five for six o’clock, 
LAUZUN 6923 I shall come to that presently. I forget whether it was determined upon at that time, but there was a meeting which followed afterwards; this is the beginning of it; it was agreed to admit every division. 
LAUZUN 6927 Nothing more. 
LAUZUN 6929 I do not recollect that there was. 
LAUZUN 6931 My answer is, if there had been any thing of the sort, I should have made a memorandum if any thing particular; I do not recollect that there was any thing of a division, but I remember it was said by Margarot. 
LAUZUN 6934 Yes 5 and it was agreed to be inted, and the thanks to be published in Fret papers, the Courier, Chronicle, Gazetteer, and Ledger. 
LAUZUN 6936 I have this memorandum, that it was to be put once in each paper; that is to say, that it was to be advertised four times; it was likewise agreed that there should be some comments made upon it, and a special committee, to draw it up, of five of the delegates; it was to be an open committee, and to meet at six o’clock on Monday—A letter from Leeds, a delegate meeting, May the 30th, 1793, a societ lately sprung up, sent by the request of the Sheffield society, to correspond with all societies, and begged ours, although ony 200, yet are determined to instruct all their neighbours, Thomas Hardy, secretary, it was instituted the z7th of November, 1792, 
LAUZUN 6940 The 15th of June I have. We have got to the 15th.—Then it must be You have not any of the 18th ?—No. the 15th. 
LAUZUN 6942 I do not. for some time, did not you?—It was so. 
LAUZUN 6944 I believe it was; it wasrecomm —Yes. 
LAUZUN 6946 I think it was 
LAUZUN 6948 I have not a memorandum of that— Upon the 25th of September, did you Resolved, that our thanks be given to J. Whar- attend any division meeting, and wherc oeton for his speech on the Sist of May, toattended the division No. 23. restore the constitution of 1688. We earnestly Where did that division meet ?—I do not exhort him to persevere in the cause of the recollect the name of the place; it was ina people, and doubt not, notwithstanding the kind of court or garden near Bunhill-row; it contumelious silence of the majority, it willgoes out from Blue Anchor-alley ; and there have its due weight with the people. another narrow alley to it, which Ido not 
LAUZUN 6950 An ad-know the name of. vertisement for Monday— esolved, our It was in some little place or alley near thanks to J. Wharton for the speech he made Bunhill-row, Moorfields !—Yes ; It was reon the Sist of May—I believe he spoke his rted that a new society was formed at speech on the 3ist of May—to restore the wentry, and that they were increased very constitution of 1688; we earnestly exhort much in the last month. It was reported that him to persevere in the cause of the people, there was a new division of the London Corand doubt not, notwithstanding the contume-responding Society; that they took Number Jious silence of the majority, 1 will have its10, which had ceased prior to this time, and due weight with the people. Agreed we willmet in the Grove, Bandy-leg- walk, and it was pve our decided support to every measure i rought forward to restore our rights as at 1688. Resolved, that the thanks of the London Corresponding Society be given 
LAUZUN 6952 Yes. 
LAUZUN 6956 It was reported that there was a petitian to the king brought forward at the last meeting of delegates; but that itwas declared treasonable by Mr. Vaughan, in consequence of which auother was to be drawn up. 
LAUZUN 6958 It was reported by several that Mr. Vaughan had given that as his opinion. 
LAUZUN 6960 That is all. 
LAUZUN 6962 Only that another was to be drawn up. 
LAUZUN 6964 I have no memorandum of any thing else. 
LAUZUN 6966 The report of the delegate was, that there were eighteen new members made that week. 
LAUZUN 6968 Yes, the same division meeting, Oct. 7th, that a! 
LAUZUN 6971 Yes. 
LAUZUN 6973 I do not recollect the day of the month that that meeting was, but it was to elect two delegates to send down to the Convention at Scotland. 
LAUZUN 6975 Margarot and Gerrald, I think. 
LAUZUN 6977 Llodgson. 
LAUZUN 6979 At a house in Hackney-road, the election was ina garden behind the house. 
LAUZUN 6981 I think he was, but 1 will not be positive. 
LAUZUN 6983 Division, No. 3, the delegate reported, that Hodgson had resigned, and 
LAUZUN 6987 At the same place ncar Bunhill-row; the next report was that a second delegate should be chose from each division, to furm a sub-committee, to revise the constitution, and to meet every Friday, at No. 31, Compton-street; the next. report was of a new society formed at Bristol; the next that colonel Macleod, and Mr. Sinclair, were one as delegates to Edinburgh, from the 
LAUZUN 6990 I have no memorandum of that. 
LAUZUN 6992 I recollect it being said, that there was going to be an association formed at Lambeth, for the. purpose of learving their exercise. 
LAUZUN 6995 No. 
LAUZUN 6997 I understovd that they were going to form themselves into different societies. 
LAUZUN 6999 I was going to say a plan was forming for those societies to learn their exercise at different places all over London, and that it was to be confined to the LandonCorresponding Society. Do you recollect any thing farther being ; said about the plan?—Not partheaarly. 
LAUZUN 7002 No, the forming of the society, and how they were to meet, to carry it on, was not at that time mature to the best of my recollection, but this was said, that there was a variety of people that did intend to learn their exescise, but this at Lambeth was the only one that was mentioned. 
LAUZUN 7004 No, but it came out afterwards, and probably, it will not be improper to mention it here, that there were members of the London Corresponding Society, that had a desire of introducing the exercise among the London Corresponding Societies divisions oa different nights, from the night that the divisions met on different evenings. 
LAUZUN 7006 It was rejected at No. 23, but this is only antieipating it. 
LAUZUN 7008 The report of that division meeting wag at the first committee night of the deles, Hodgson had resigned the chair, and ter was chosen chairman. 
LAUZUN 7011 No. 23. 
LAUZUN 7013 At the same place. 
LAUZUN 7015 Read a letter from Norwich, signed W. Cole, from all the societies there, approving of the Convention at Edinburgh, and requesting a constant correspondence; finances are very low, they want to get a second subscription in order to support the delegates in Scotland. 
LAUZUN 7017 From Norwich, and then here seems a kind of instruction to the delegates, requesting them tovisit all the societies in Scotland. 
LAUZUN 7020 The finances are very low, in order to get a second subscription, in order to support the delegates in Scotland, the instruction is with regard to a letter that has been sent to the delegates requesting them to visit ail the societies in Scotland, there is something that I gathered from the delegate, reporting it the committee of: delegates. 
LAUZUN 7023 Done by the society. 
LAUZUN 7025 It was reported that the finances were very low, and they want to get a second subscription to support the delegates in Scotland, 
LAUZUN 7027 I thought so at first, but Jooking at it again I rather conceive that this is the report of a delegate from the committee of delegates. 
LAUZUN 7030 That the finances of the Corresponding Society were low, and that they wanted a second subscription to support the delegates in Scotland. 
LAUZUN 7032 The instructions were in a letter that had been sent, but by whom I have no memorandum here, to the delegates to visit all the societies in Scotland. 
LAUZUN 7034 Do you mean concerning something that I 
LAUZUN 7036 I do; it was reported by the delegates, that there was goihg te be a second general meeting to be held at Edinburgh, but afterwards it was altered and intended to be held atGlasgow instead of Edinburgh. 
LAUZUN 7038 Yes. 
LAUZUN 7042 Yees, I have put them in my pocket. 
LAUZUN 7048 The first meeting I attended of the delegates, being re-elected, was on the 2d of January, 1794. 
LAUZUN 7050 He was secretary. 
LAUZUN 7052 Yes. 
LAUZUN 7054 The first is the election of delegates I believe, I need not read them over; the first resolution was to remove the committee rvom to No. 8, New Compton: street; to remove the meeting of delegates to No. 3, New Comptonstreet; then a resolution was passed, that no person but what had belonged three months to the society, was eligible to be elected a delegate; it was agreed to draw up a handbill, approving of the conduct of the delegates in Scotland, anda censure on the magistrates; to distribute one thousand in Edinburgh. 
LAUZUN 7056 Yes, to censure the conduct of the magistrates; to distribute one thousand in Edinburgh, and they were to be sent down immediately. 
LAUZUN 7058 I o the best of my recollection the urgenc was explained to be very great; and I thinke they were to be sent down the following night. A letter was read from Shefiield, signed William Brown Broomhead, chairman, recommending some spirited resolutions to be adopted to support the delegates immediately. i 
LAUZUN 7060 A report read from Sheffield, William Brown Broome head, chairman ; it recommends some spirited resolutions to be adopted to support the delegates immediately, and it likewise says, that at this meeting there were about two thousand ; T believe that is all at that meeting ; the next J have is the 9th of January, at No. 3, according to the resolution at New Compton street. 
LAUZUN 7062 I am inclined to think he was there, though I have not got his name down, I have the names of a variety of delegates and other people that were to be stewards for a meeting that was to be held on the 20th, I think. 
LAUZUN 7064 A general meeting to be at one o’clock, on ths 2vth instant, to meet Mr. Gerrald, and havea dinner at five o'clock, at the Globe-tavern im the Strand. 
LAUZUN 7066 On the guth of January, a sub-committee was formed for management of this matter; the subcommittee that undertook the management of it from the 9th to the 29th, were Thelwall, Franklow, and Stiff; the names of the stewards are, Sohn Thelwall, John Agar. John Agar, have you the christian names at full length in your minutes ?—I may be mistaken in the christian name, which has sometimes happened, but I have it John Agar, and Srewart Kydd, barristers, John Lovett, H. F. Harrison, T. Stiff, Bartholomew Peacock, J. Philip Franklow, Thomas Harris, C. Sinclair, J. Powell, W. Williams, Thomas Mitchel, John Pearce, Matthew Moore, Wm. Moffatt, and J. Martin, attorney. 
LAUZUN 7069 A sub-committee to draw up a letter, and send to all the socicties, to unite them all in one general sense in an address to the public, on their invaded rights by the proceedings of the magistrates at Edinburgh. It was mentioned at that meeting, that they should discuss the conduct of the right honourable Mr. Dundas, respecting the trials of the delegates in Edinburgh. 
LAUZUN 7071 I have not got down the names of the committee. 
LAUZUN 7073 Yes; the next minute thatIhave got, is of the 20th of January, at the Globe-tavern. 
LAUZUN 7075 It is on the same day a subcommittee to be chosen. 
LAUZUN 7077 There was a sub-committee chosen, but I have not got down their names. 
LAUZUN 7079 I have read over what I have got down, and I recollect nothing more. 
LAUZUN 7081 I ceased to be a delegate, in consequence of one ef the London Corresponding Society, makingareport some time before, that I was a spy upon the society, and I was tried in consequence of it, I think on the 13th of June, I was tried by the committee of delegates. 
LAUZUN 7083 I was acquitted by a very eee repaid: 
LAUZUN 7086 I think it was the 13th of June. 
LAUZUN 7088 Yes, a meeting the 20th of January, athe Globe tavern, J "Martin, president 
LAUZUN 7090 I went to the Globe Tavern, before the company had assembled, or business began, but I do not recollect precisely the hour they were assembling, so far I havea very clear recollection, in the one pair of stairs room, and that in the course of their consultation, and talking with each other, that the floor of the room gave way, and created a vast deal of confusion. 
LAUZUN 7092 To the room above. 
LAUZUN 7094 I was there before the business began, and I was there till the business was finished, and the resolutions at that time were read, indeed I have a report of it here. 
LAUZUN 7096 There is a place for the musicians, at the side of the room, 0 
LAUZUN 7098 Just so, Tell us what passed?—It was recommended that was the place where Mr. Martin was. that hand-bills be stuck up in all parts of "Who else was there ?—There were Ramsey,London, saying what grievances we wish to 
LAUZUN 7101 Who stood in the front as chairman?—Yes—the next thing that came forward was & Martin, Thelwall, Ramsey, and Richter. box for a subscription, for the support of the 
LAUZUN 7103 A deal ofdelegates, the amountof which was, 131. 48. 5d. time was taken up by the report of Mr. Ram- the box was opened that night, and there sey, the short-hand writer, reporting Marga-were pine bad shillings in it. 
LAUZUN 7106 Yes. patriots, but objected to by Thelwall, as it 
LAUZUN 7108 Yes may produce massactes ; it was proposed at 
LAUZUN 7112 I have mentioned, it was proposed to publish the names of those who had given evidence against the patriots. 
LAUZUN 7114 I have not got memorandums of any thing else; itwas recommended that hand-bills should be stuck up, saying, what grievances we BUStained. 
LAUZUN 7116 No. 
LAUZUN 7118 Ycs, January the goth, No. 3, New Compton-street. 
LAUZUN 7121 The opening of those divisions was, to endeavour to have meeting houses all over London, of different divisions of the so ciety, those that lived nearest to a place of meeting, it was recommended to them to attend at the meeting nearest to them, for the urpose of collecting friends round about near that place where that division met, and so all round London. 
LAUZUN 7124 Yes. 
LAUZUN 7126 Yes, he was chairman at the dinner, but Martin was president at the meeting. 
LAUZUN 7128 Alll the reort IL have got is the toasts after dinner. 
LAUZUN 7130 I have ot a memorandum here, that after Mr. Ramsey’s report of Mr. Margarot’s trial, that next was read andcarried, the "address to the Nation, which is dated at the Globe-tavern, although it was drawn up prior to that. If I were to see it, I should know what resolutions were passed at that time, that is the only remark have t made of it; then follows the dinner ; there wyere several people in the course of conversation that 1 did not know, but conversation was kept up by different people thdt got together; I have made a remark, that there was very bold language made use of. 
LAUZUN 7135 No. 3. New Compton-street. ings?—No particular number was stated at 
LAUZUN 7137 Y es. tion which they had before, that when a divi
LAUZUN 7139 Yes. gion was more than thirty, forty, or sixty, that we on cee ere it should branch off, and then have a new number ; but, however, that was a matter that was very little attended to. 
LAUZUN 7141 No; the division Nu. 13 recommended that the delegates be instructed to advertise, and request a many spirited friends that do not belong to us to come forward and subscribe to the support of the delegates. 
LAUZUN 7143 As much as they could prevail upon them to subscribe. Division No. 8, in Rotherhithe, wished to know if they shouldremove into the Borough, having had a constable with them, many have lost their business, and are afraid of pressBangs. The next was the call of the house. 
LAUZUN 7145 The delegates attended the call of th house, ‘ , 
LAUZUN 7147 A motion was made by Thelwall that there should be a Permanent committee of delegates to consider of measures to be pursued during the present posture of affairs, and to be a secret one ; those of the feat committee of delegates chose, to be filled up by other delegates, and they were to be invested with a discretionary power to report to the committee. 
LAUZUN 7150 They were Martin, Baxter, Williams, Thelwall, and Moore; that was carried unanimously. 
LAUZUN 7152 None, 
LAUZUN 7154 The secret committee was to consider of what measures were necessary to be adopted at that time, and so long as they should sit, according to the measures that were adopted in the House of Commons. 
LAUZUN 7156 The secret committee was to have a power to call the general committee of delegates together when they saw it was Necessary, and at any time, or at any place. This was agreed to also. 
LAUZUN 7158 A sub-committee of three to consider of the best mode to increase subscriptions for the delegates in Scotland ; this was referred to the secret committee with full powers, 
LAUZUN 7160 There was a letter from Margarot,.but I have no memorandum whether it was read or not. 
LAUZUN 7162 No. 
LAUZUN 7164 It was proposed by Thelwall that a committee of two, as a committee of exigence, should report tothe general committee. 
LAUZUN 7166 I have it down herewA committee of two as a committee of exigence to report to the general committee, but not to publish any thing: but this was withdrawn— T have here a letter dated the 28th of January 1794, from Old Friends New Revived, that they had collected as many friends as pussible, and would publish their sentiments; that they are increasing the Bristol Society for Constitutional Information. 
LAUZUN 7168 They describe themselves so in the letter.—On the 6th of February there was a meeting of delegates. 
LAUZUN 7170 Yes, he was.— The first thing that was mentioned there wa that a letter was received from citizenwith respect to his going down to Rotherhithe, on account of the society established there being disturbed.—Motion from the permanent committee to nominate others in their places, it being a secret committee, and those that are to appointed are not to be known. This was brought forward by the secret com mittee, eaying that being a secret commit tee they had found out that it was danger. ous, and therefore they applied to the committee of delegates to dissolve them, and give them power to choose another commit tee in their place; and they likewise requested that they might not be compelled to name the names of those persons that were to form the new committee, Division, No. 11, recommended the committee to consider of the stuation of Hodson and his wife, he was os among the felons, and deprived of seeing his friends: this was sent back on account of the lowness of our funds, being obliged to support our delegates. 
LAUZUN 7172 Delegates in Scotland— Motion from division 29, that the names of those who haye subscribed for the distressed weavers be printed, and to be posted up; that was not carried. A letter was received ins parcel from Sheffield from Margarot to Hardy, dated the 7th of January.A letter from Sheffield, dated the 30th of January, Joseph Scofield the bearer, recommended to spend all histime inthe societies. A letter was received from Gerrald, recommending them to send down a short-hand writer to take his trial. 
LAUZUN 7174 The delegate of division 18, made a motion to reprint the Rights of Swine, and ordered it to be printed by Pearce,—Motion by Pearee, that a committee of seven be appoints to revise the new constitution, an sn Thursday evening. Resolved, that fifty thovsand hand-bills of lord Stanhope’s speech respecting the foreing troops be printed ; to return him thanks, and to engrave the doctrine : directed myself to the business, I shall answer upon our hearts, and transmit it to our posterity. 
LAUZUN 7176 Yes. 
LAUZUN 7179 By mere accident. 
LAUZUN 7181 An ironmonger, and in the commission line. 
LAUZUN 7183 I was at the sign of the Mansion-house, when the division No. 12, had a meeting there ; I knew nothing at all of it, but the landlord had one of their printed resolutions given to him, and I. requested the favour of looking at it, and upon seeing it, my remark to him was, that it was a society formed for overturning the constitution of this country, and I advised him by no means tosuffer them to meet there any more, for if he did, he would certainly have his licence taken away. 
LAUZUN 7185 I went up to the society the same evening along with two other gentlemen that were there. I understood that any person might go into the poom ; there had been two or three had attempted it, therefore they appointed a door keeper to admit none but those that were members ; one of the society endeavoured to turn me out, however I went in, and had some conversation with the president, whose, name was Watson, and who was at that time supto be secretary to lord George Gordon ; 
LAUZUN 7191 Yes; the following night, in Newgate-street. 
