LAW 766 Where did you find that paper? — found it at Mr. Adams’s, 
LAW 767 To Alerunder Grant.—Is that signature Mr. Hardy’s hand-writing 
LAW 769 D. Adams, esq. secretary to the Society for Constitutional Information. 
LAW 770 “ Sir, Your favour of the Srd inStant, informing us that our proposal for addressing the French National Convention had met with the approbation of the Society for Constitutional Iaformation, we have inclosed you a copy of the address we have drawn up, and mean to send, the society at large having approved of it. 
LAW 771 “ Not in the least presuming to propose it for the adoption of your society, ourselves will joyfully throw ‘it aside, and as readily subscribe to any production of your’s better calculated to answer the purpose, and less unworthy being presented to so august an assembly. 
LAW 772 Should no other be produced, we imagine this plain but honest address will be adopted by some other societies in concurrence with our own ; and, respecting the manner of signing, of conveying, and o pesseuiing it, your better experienced advice will greatly oblige. —Gentlemen, your very humble servant, for the committee of the London Corresponding Society, 
LAW 773 “ Mavaice Marcaror, chairman, homas Harpy, sec. “ Thursday 11th Oct., 1792. “ D. Adams, esq. Took’s Court, Chancery-lane: : Mr. Edward Lauzun deposed that he founi the following letters in Mr. Hardy’s house. 
LAW 774 “ Sir; Your favour of the 11th instant, 'and the address of the London Corresponding 
LAW 775 Society, were read at a meeting of the Societyfavour of the 16th instant, and return you our for Constitutional Information held last Fri-| thanks for the papers sent us; as also for day, and I am desired to express their thanksthose from the new society at Nottingham, to to the London Corresponding Society for thewhom we wish you would communicate this said address, and to assure them that they doand the inclosed address, which our society, highly approve of the spirit of the same
LAW 777 STook’s Court, signed by the president and secretary of each 
LAW 778 Monday, 15th Oct. 1792. society, and, at the same time, state the num
LAW 779 “ Maurice Margarot, esq. chairman to ber of members you respectively sign for, as the London Corresponding Society. fe eal the number, the greater will the effect be. 
LAW 780 “Mr. Thomas Walker, president of the! “ Qur hopes are as sanguine as yours, and, 
LAW 781 Manchester Constitutional Society. perhaps, our numbers increase as fast : reason 
LAW 782 ‘ Sir, Multiplicity of business preventedand good order must make us invincible. I our secretary from answering your kind favour., sir, for the London Corresponding Society, the ¢6th ult. We contetiy curnelves ae yours, &c. “M. M. ch. 
LAW 783 y with transmitting to you for the conside-| —,, ss ration of the Manchester Corresponding So-| ,,, as i us have your decision ss ciety our intended address to the French Na-50? 4S possible. tional Convention; if your society approves London Oct. 18, 1792. of it, and will join us, the manner in which} “ Sir, The London Corresponding Society you will do so remains with you ; but we ima-learn with pleasure, that the Society for Congine, that the sending us back a copy of thestitutional Information approve of the spirit address, signed by the president and the se-of our address ; but, tocome hack to the point, cretary, stating the number of persons forwe imagine that as you A presialy had apwhom they sign, will be sufficient to autho-| proved the measure, and that now you aprize us to join the name of your respectableprove the spirit of the address itself, we may society with others concurring in the samewith propriety ask you, whether you will conmeasure. We likewise request your speedycur with us in sending that address, or wheanswer directed as before to T. H. &c. ther you will draw up another, better suited q ; to the present circumstances, and permit us ME. ML chairman ofthe C, of Bofe.5) pn ou in transmitting it to the French Cos We pi a Se Nerd ie nak ar National Convention. 
LAW 784 mstitutiona. ety about the best methsoanes of conveying and presenting the address. ‘ a aa, Sec. to the Constitutional So
LAW 785 “ Oct. 10, 1792. oes 
LAW 786 4 . Norwich, Nov. 11th, 1793. Sir, The London Corresponding Socict: al Le has received your letter of the auh insta, P iit We te praia for directed to their secretary. We are happy to sr a eee are he sbl Jearn your determination in favour of fentan 2 riba sci y sa itchy amd fee nd sentiOurselves, to give it all the countenance we sec nen you Bo Sip y ae) h ly discan afford, have determined on a friendly ad-Perse! al ade wed “I , Wane so mauch admire dress to the French National Convention pu" ape gin, Pe prea on an. We hope the concurrence of many societies tbe state, permit He with the utmost defer. Annexed you have a copy of it, and if the with so. your vag y society, ka participate different ‘affiliated societies in your neigh- ee yee ae h your great national corresponPasso will join us in transmitting that nuine oni a Ree nonee hoeok ie mark of our approbation to the French, it will me euseguus ea only be necessary for you with all speed to Huntly desired by the society which I have return us a copy of the address signed by the thn ada tre to Tear a ih by tal sea stating the number of persons for whom they th soing, waich,s ere intorm you of sign
LAW 788 “ Geonce Kwapp, chairman. 
LAW 789 “ Tsaac Sarnt, secretary. 
LAW 790 “ Antu.Cappewoutp member. 
LAW 791 P.S. I should esteem it a favour to be informed of the town residence of the lords Kenyon and Loughborough, for a matter of private concern. 
LAW 792 Addressed “ to Mr. Thomas Hardy, to be ies the Bell, Exeter-street, Strand, Lon“ Fellow Citizens, Yeur letter of the 11th instant was, by the secretary, laid before the committee of delegates of the London Corresponding Society. 
LAW 793 “ Having never before heard of your society, they wish to have some further pei ai concerning it, as to its origin, its principles, and the tum er of its teem: eh aac count in your next letter will give them great satisfaction. They do not thereughly comprehend how it would be possible to incorporate with our society three of your members 
LAW 794 Norwieh, the residing in Norwich, inasmuch as it would be impossible to communicate to them at that distance all our correspondence, and they could not attend our committees, where the business is transacted. If it is information you want, they very readily will answer any question you may put to them; and, to that end, invite you to a -regular correspondence, As to the object they have in view, they refer you to their addresses: you will therein see they mean to disseminate political knowled a thereby engage the judicious part of the nation tu demand a restoration of their rights in annual parliaments, the members of those arliaments owing their election to the unfount and even unbiassed suffrage of every citizen in possession of his reason, and not incapacitated by crimes. They consider the obtaining such parliaments to be the ground work of every necessary reform ; to this theres fore they steadily adhere, and turn themselves neither to the right nor to the left, to follow any other plan whatever; the rules and order of their society being so plain and easy, that if they can get a majority of the nation to act as they do, the pone reform will effect itself. They look upon the trifling difference that may have arisen between the several societies to be of very little consequence, and think they will subside without any ways injuring the cause. 
LAW 795 “ They think ita matter of small importance whatever name you choose to adopt. They advise you to follow their plan, and divide yourselves into small societies, cach of which to choose a delegate; the delegates, when met, to form the committee, and transact the business of the society; afterwards, let each delegate report to his division the business so dune; let him admit fresh members, communicate fresh intelligence, encourage political discussion, or read to you such books as may convey the instruction your weaker members stand in need of ; but, above all, be careful to preserve peace and good order among you; let no dispute be carried to excess; leave monarchy, democracy, and even religion, entirely aside; never dispute on these topics, let your endeavours go to increase the numbers of those who wish for a full and equal representation of the people, and leave to a parliament, so chosen, to form plans for remedying the existing abuses ; should they then not answer your expectation at the year’s end, you may choose others in their stead. The committee offer you every assistance in their power, but request that your questions may relate chiefly to the methods of obtaining a reform in parliament. Like yourselves, they are friends to peace, not aiaceny: and well-wishers to the rights of man; yet not so sanguine in their expect: tions as to imagine those rights will Testored by the spontaneous consent of those who have so long deprived mankind of them. Understanding that ou are many societies in oa ek recommend to you to unite upon the plan before mentioned; the correspondence, then carried on by one committee, will serve you all: they likewise recommend the appointment of one of the least conspicuous of your members to receive such letters as may be sent to the society, lest, if he be well known about your town to be a member, some interruption might take place in the delivery. ‘ 
LAW 796 am, for the London Corresponding Society, most sincerely, fellow citizens, your fellow- labourer in the cause of freedom, i “ M. M. chairman, he Committee of the Friends of the People. 
LAW 797 “ London, the 1st February, 1793. 
LAW 798 “ gentlemen, We are instructed by the committee of delegates of the London Corresponding Society to express the satisfaction they experience in finding, by your answer to our letter, that your society are willing to communicate freely with those whose friends they profess themselves to be: not the less determined to obtain the desired reform, had you refused to act in concert with us, we yet freely acknowledge that your concurrence will add great weight to our so just demand. Leaving' the distinctions of rank, talents, and fortune, entirely out of the question, on a subject in which every man is equally interested, all must be convinced, that when members of Parliameng demand a reform, abuses certainly exist; and that when men, distinguished for their knowledge of the laws, join in the purmal, is constitutionality is sufficiently warran 
LAW 799 “ With you we think, that ‘the common happiness of all’ is the only constitutional authority laws can claim—that laws so founded must meet the affections of the whole nation and that those who seek the most effectual means of obtaining such, ‘ equally promote the present peace and the future prosperity of their country.’ -‘Venerating with you our excellent constitution, we are firmly persuaded the restoring it to its primitive purity will be found a sufficient remedy agains every abuse we complain of. Did we, however, deem less highly of its principles, we could not be brought to think ourselves so greatly degene as to be unequal to the Bike| of a task which our forefathers undertook, without fearing it would prove beyond their strength, not to disgrace them by supinely submitting to a total overthrow of the glorious fabric, reared by their yalour and cemented with their blood, from premature apprehensions of ‘ the tempest that mightensue’ in a conflict of oppression against general good—pecuniary interest, and life Itself, are never to be brought into competition with liberty. “ We thank your society for your kind advice concerning peace, order, and obedience to the laws: we made them the foundation of our union, as our addresses sufficiently evince—we have never d from obedience, and have thereby frustrated evil designs of all those who militate against reform. You acknowledge, that ‘ te wish success to the cause of freedom is congenial to the heart of a Briton,’ instead therefore Bod admitting your argument against our havi: published such Datiaiense by a friendly ade dress to the National Convention of France, that you, that all other societies, that the whole nation did not catch the generous flame, and follow our example—as to the handle likely to be made of it by our corrupt opposers (and well we have noted them), let them use it like most of their other machinaaa it will only accelerate that which they read. 
LAW 800 “ We must observe, that at a time when the enemies of mankind are exerting every Ee to crush the infant effort ef French hi
LAW 801 'y, it became our duty, as friends to human happiness, to express the just abhorrence we entertained of a manifesto which we conceived aimed, not so much at the liberty of France as at the liberty of the world. But to make any particular comments upon that manifesto is now unnecessary, as it might be unsafe—we only wish every Briton to peruse it. 
LAW 802 iad seepardliens of any evil intention, which the malice of our enemies may attribute to our conduct, we remain conscious of our rectitude; and that we therein acted up to the free, open, manly, generous national character of Britons—a character which oppression, assisted by enervating luxury, has not yet been able to entirely extinguish. 
LAW 803 “Unnoticed, however, you have tree over our statement ofabuses, our addresses to the nation, our demand of protection, addressed to those whose duty it is to afford it, and our answer to the calumnies of Mr. Reeves’s association, we request your notice ofthem. Pressed likewise by our numerous country correspondents to give them authentic information of what measures you mean to pursue when you mean to begin, and how far you intend carrying your proposed reform; we beg your explicit answer on these heads, and that you will enable us speedily to rightly inform the country thereon—no ways doubting, but that from your answer, we shall be enabled to assure them that you are really what your title imports, the Friends of the People, for many thousands of whom, in the name of the London Corresponding Society, united in one common interest and pursuit, with man other societies in different parts of the isl. altogether forming no despicable number of usotal members of society; we have the honour of subscribing ourselves, your fellow. labourers, and humble servants. 
LAW 804 “ Sir; I am directed by the Society of the Friends of the People to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, dated February 1, 17953 
LAW 805 having pledged ourselves by our public actsand documents, to use every effort in our power for the purpose ofobtainingacomplete, substantial, andi radical reform of the representation uf the people in parliament, we never can be cos posed to have surrendered to any other body of men the exercise of our own discretion, with respect both to the plan which we deem most effectual for the purpose, and the time which we may think most favourable for offering it to the public; at present we think, that to make public our views on these subjects, would be to furnish arms to our enemies, and to injure the cause in which we are engaged. The period, however, is probably not very far distant when these particulars will be made known to the public; it is sufficient now to apes our confidence, 
LAW 806 1 that moment will prove by evidence More substantial than professions; that we will propose no plan of reform which is short of an effectual destruction of abuses in the representation of the people, and that we have honestly exerted every faculty we possess in choosing the time most favourable to the success of our plan. 
LAW 807 “ We have learned, with affliction and indignation, the arbitrary and unconstitutional interruption of meshing of citizens, peaceably and lawfully assembled for the discussion and maintenance of their rights. We have ever viewed with utter disapprobation both of their principles and proceedings, the associations who have been the authors or instruments of this persecution. Their principles, we think, are repugnant to the free spirit of the English law; and their conduct, we think, has been as injurious and oppressive, as the principle of their institution is unconstitutional and absurd. But deeply penetrated as we are with these sentiments, we neither possessed power nor legal competence to interpose for the protection of an individual, suffering even under the most unjust prosecution, we cannot therefore feel ourselves blameable for inaction in cases of which the particulars were never laid before us, and in which it might have been perhaps impossible, rae perhaps improper, for us to have interfe 
LAW 808 “‘We do not think it necessary to make any particular remarks on those publications which you have put forth; we are not called upon to pronounce any judgment on the publications of individuals or societies; and however we may lament the grievances of which some of your publications complain, our efforts must necessarily be limited to the object of our institution—the creation of an to speak the public voice in legislation. 
LAW 809 “We cannot help expressing some surprise at the information, that societies in different ts of the kingdom, who were solicitous about the nature and extent of our plans of reform, instead of expressing such solicitude to ourselves, should have chosen the indirect and oircuitous channel of apy other society. 
LAW 810 Had they applied to the Friends ef the People directly, they would assuredly have received every information compatible with prudence, and with a due regard to the success of our common cause. 
LAW 811 “On the subject of your correspondence with the National Convention of France, we freely communicated to you our opinion in our last letter; we see no reason to change the sentiments which we then expressed on the prudence and tendency of that measure, for though we not only ‘ acknowledge, but avow with pride, ‘ that to wish success to the cause of freedom is congenial to the heart of a Briton ;’ yet we cannot think that men engaged in so momentous a cause, as that of parliamentary reform, are. entitled to make public declarations, even of their most viriuous sentiments, in any manner which may injure that cause, serve the purposes, and strengthen the pretexts of its enemies. Far be it from us to treat with severity and rigour even those errors and indiscretions into which men may be betrayed by a generous zeal for the cause of freedom, but surely it cannot be denied, that the correspondence of societies in this country with public bodies in France, has furnished the most specious pretences to interested men, for confounding a virtuous sensibility to the interests of liberty in other countries, with a criminal intention to introduce disorder and civil commotion into our own ; it is chiefly by the help of this pretext, that designing men have so successfully prace tised on the alarms of the Se and that timid honesty has been rendered the dupe and the instrument of corruption. But on this subject all further remark is now become unnecessary, as every good citizen must now feel himself precluded from all political intercourse with, France (for a period which we earnestly pray may be very short), by a war, the principle of which we utterly disapprove, the inevitable evils of which we deeply deplore, and at the possible consequences of which we tremble. Among the most wise and honest friends of liberty there must arise frequiens differences of opinion and of conduct; and these differences, the natural effect of an independent judgment and independent spirit, are perfectly compatible with mutual confidence nde g co-operation; when indecd designing persons avail themselvesof such differences, tosow distrust, and to insinuate suspicivas against the characters and intentions of men, it is then only that they become perniciousand injurious, Against practices which might produce such a spirit of disunion and distrust, it is surely almost unnecessary to warn the friends of liberty, at a moment when our enemies are so formidable and so united. They havesacrificed all inferior interests and all former differences to their common interest, in perpetuating abuses and corruptions. Let it not be said, that more generous motives have a less powerful influence on the human mind, and that the love of liberty is not able to produce that union among her friends, whieh in her enemies has arisen from the most abject and sordid passions. 
LAW 812 “ It seems scarce necessary to represent to the London Corresponding Society the pe‘culiar necessity of circumspection and moderation, at a moment when the most venial indiscretion of the friends of reform is remarked with such malignant watchfulness, and converted into an argument against the cause of reform itself. 
LAW 813 “ He must surely either be a secret enemy, or an unsafe and pernicious friend of that cause, who could prompt you to any thing that could be construed into indiscretion, or who would labour to sow distrust among the small number of those who now appear in behalf of freedom in England, at a period when a persecution is carried on against the friends of reform at home, and a war is commenced, which in its progress may combine the arms of England with those of powers engaged in a crusade against the general liberties of Europe
LAW 815 o Mr. Thomas Hardy, secretary to the London Corresponding Society. 
LAW 816 “ Mr. Edward Lauzun deposed, that he found the following paper in Mr. Hardy’s house. Sir, The committee of the London Corresponding Society have at present to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 15th of apa f “ With pleasure we perceive your societ not unwillin gto keepupacorrespondence wit! tus, yet at the same time we are sorry that you should appear to be hurt by the plain questions we put to you in our last; to ask of you what measures you mean to pursue in a matter which concerns us all, is certainly ne ways calling upon you to surrender up to our society, or even to the public at large, your discretion ; nor can we conceive that a of men having pledged themselves to the public, can be a sufficient security to that public to repose implicit confidence in them, without being made further acquainted with the nature and extent of the plan you mean to pursue, in order that we the people may, if we approve it, co-operate with you; the extent of your porponedt refers we apprehend is already determined upon, and we can discover no advantage likely to result from its secrecy ; on the contrary, if we are to ask for ourselves the same thing which our friends mean to ask for us, the latter must receive their instructions from us, or we must be ditected by them ; in either case there must be no secrets ; we further conceive, that the permanency of a reform must be founded on the ee of the public, who after merely berating om every thing proposed, have found your plan the most useful and the best that could possibly be laid down. The business we are engaged in is of too important a nature to admit of reserve or disguise ; 
LAW 817 we will therefore, by the frankness of our behaviour, show ourselves worthy the friendship of a society of honest men endeavouring to serve their country, and plainly tell you our country correspondents did not desire us to inquire of you what you meant to do, but fairly asked us whether we thought you honest? whether we thought you meant to serve 2 party, or the nation? whether we imagined you intended a partial or a complete reform? Addressed in this manner to us, and blunt as these questions may appear, they have nothing in them whieh can possibly offend you, the people having always an undoubted right to scrutinize the character andprinciples of those who call themselves their friends, and, as such, avow an intention of bringing. forward measures in which we are so deeply interested. As to the furnishing our enemies with arms by a disclosure of our intention, we cannot conceive that demands, founded on constitutional rights, can lose any of their force by being made public. Reason (vires acquirit eundo) to triumph requires only to be known; and as none of the ple’s demands are founded on fallacy, to take the enemy by surprise weuld be unworthy of the public champions, and moreover, perfectly needless when truth and reason must unavoidably bear down aH before them without the assistance of guile. 
LAW 818 “ Under the idea that, where you say you neither possessed power, nor legal compe“tence to interfere for the protection of an individual, suffering under the most unjust prosecution,’ you allude to the case of our bill sticker, we must beg to set you right, and to inform you we never, as a society, sought the interference of any body of men; on the contrary, we are firmly persuaded, however hard such cases may bear upon individuals, they will eventually prove of service to the public, nothing having a greater tendency towards rousing the country from its too prevalent apathy, with regard to stretch of prerogative and abuse of power. 
LAW 819 “ As to our Address tothe French National Convention, we imagine it best to say ho more about it at present, only that if it has furnished pretexts to designing men, it has only saved them the trouble of seeking excuses elsewhere: but such men, eves without our aid, would have been at no loss ; at the same time, we are to believe the plan for war, if conceived before then, was by no means accelerated thereby; intended as preventatives, addresses might have been effectual, if they had not been more generally adopted; the only fault therein, that by a mistaken idea; the addressers mre credit to phe pei hes a ter a of energy t it posSoseed. ea agree wilt you, that umity of sentiment is ne-way ingpmpatible with diver. 
LAW 820 sity of opinion, and that the latter is natural to m mt minds; with the same object in view, their mode of pursuing it will andoubtedly differ; with caution, therefore, we will watch over those who wish to sow athe seeds of unnecessary distrust among us, and will at the same time take good care that the doctrine of implicit confidence may Dot gain ground among us; full as much as yoursetves, we plead the necessity of union among the friends of liberty, but isment that it is prevented, or at least retarded in many instances by the very same thing that promotes it among the enemies of reform, namely, interest; with them, all their interest is for the continuation of abuses, ‘while to some of us a reform must be attended with ‘pecumiary loss, and many others would lose their employ, their daily bread, were it dcpown they took an active part; thus, the same motive, assuming on one side the appearance of a virtue, gives emulation to bad amen, and on the other, in its vilest bat most aatural ferm, stays the pepsiess of those who, with the best intentions, labour to save their coentry. 
LAW 821 “ We thank you for your kind and prudent advice, enjoining us moderation and discretion at this critical moment, when every imprudence in the advocate is liable to be rendered prejudicial to the causeself. 
LAW 1024 The papers in the case of Mr. Sayre had been seized, and the chief justice said, give notice of the papers you. want,. and move for them. 
LAW 1492 The ground upon which I meant to address your lordships has been, ina great degree, anticipated by what has fallen from Mr. 
LAW 1493 wer
LAW 1495 Then what is this act? And is it an act: which falls within any of the overt-acts charged upon the face of the indictment
LAW 1497 letter: the only question is, whether such a letter as that, of which it may be predicated, that it contains an exhortation and incitement to this object, is or not to be received in evi dence. I conceive there can be no doubt it is an excitement and exhortation upon this subject, and if it be that it is ad«issible. 
LAW 2884  re you a member of a Society for Con‘vonal Ioformation, at Sheffield
LAW 2886 nen did you first begin to be such per 
LAW 2888 oS. or how long
LAW 2891 Io the conversations amongst ue members of that society, what was the vofessed object at the time when you first ecame a member 
LAW 2893 Did that continue to be their professed obect? or did they profess any other, and what abject, towards the latter part of the time of our continuance with that society 
LAW 2895 Did you continue to communicate with that society as a member of it since you ceased to be secretary 
LAW 2897 What was the professed object subsequent to that time, after you ceased to be secretary, and continued to communicate with them as a member
LAW 2899 Doyou remember the society at Sheffield choosing any person to be their delegate to the Scotch Convention 
LAW 2901 Who was the person chosen
LAW 2903 Do youknow whether Brown went upon that delegation 
LAW 2905 Do you know whether he was ever taken into custody
LAW 2907 Did you godown to him at the time he was in custody !—He was at large when I went to him. I wassent down to him at Edinburgh by the society, 
LAW 2908 What were you sent to him for
LAW 2910 Did you so
LAW 2912 What sum of money 
LAW 2914 Did you carry him money from any other societies? —I did not. 
LAW 2915 Doyou know how the money you so cartied him was collected 
LAW 2955 What was the next measure, supposing their petition A la ? what was then to be done 
LAW 2995  Were you a member of a Society for Constitutional Information, at Sheffield 
LAW 2997 When did you first begin to be such thember
LAW 2999 Did you ever act as secretary to that society? Yes, 
LAW 3000 For how long
LAW 3002 Did you in that character write letters for the society 
LAW 3004 By whom was the business of that societ managed 
LAW 3006 Did they form a committee? or in what ether manner did they conduct the business of the society 
LAW 3009 In the conversations amongst members of that society, what was the puned object at the time when you first me a member 
LAW 3011 Did you continue to communicate with that society as a member of it since you ceased to be secretary 
LAW 3013 What was the professed object subsequent to that time, after you ceased to be secretary, and continued to communicate with them as & member 
LAW 3015 Doyou remember the society at Sheffield ng any person to be their delegate to the Scotch Convention 
LAW 3017 Who was the person chosen
LAW 3019 Do you know whether Brown went upon that delegation
LAW 3021 Do you know whether he was ever taken into custody 
LAW 3023 Did you go down to him at the time he wacustody 
LAW 3025 What were you sent to him for
LAW 3027 Did you so
LAW 3029 What sum of money
LAW 3031 Did you carry him money from any other societies? —I did not. 
LAW 3032 Do you know how the money you so cartied him was collected 
LAW 3034 One of the Jury—Did you go to Scotland with this money f—Yes. 
LAW 3035 a lie you see him at Edinburgh
LAW 3037 How were your own expenses defrayed
LAW 3039 Whom did you receive the money immediately from
LAW 3041 Who is he 
LAW 3043 Was he a member of the Constitutional Society there 
LAW 3045 Do you remember any person of the name of Yorke or Redheadbecoming a member of that society, before you fave up your place as secretary 
LAW 3047 Have you ever known him by any other name
LAW 3049 Do you know where Gale, the printer, is now 
LAW 3051 You know a person of the name of Yorke
LAW 3053 Have you known him before or since by any other name 
LAW 3055 He attended the meeting of this society 
LAW 3057 Since the time that he became a member of the society at Sheffield, did he attend the meetings pretty regularly 
LAW 3059 Did Ee take any active part in the proceedings of the meetings when he did attend? He used to exhort sometimes in the meetings when he did attend, 
LAW 3060 Do you recollect the subject of his exhortations 
LAW 3062 Did you ever hear him mention the subject of arms
LAW 3064 What were the means that he recommended to the society to carry into effect the objects they professed to be desirous of attaining 
LAW 3066 What were the means to be used? 
LAW 3070 What was the next measure, supposing their petition sect ? what was then to be done 
LAW 3072 post, 
LAW 3073 No specific plan 
LAW 3075 You said he did not in public advise the use ofarms; what have you heard him advise upon that subject in private? 
LAW 3082 The time Tam inquiring about, was when he was at Sheflicld, Have you heard him in private recommend the use of arms 
LAW 3084 Upon that threat of dispersicn what did he advise
LAW 3086 Against what
LAW 3088 Who were the pecple thatthoucht it necessary to have arms
LAW 3090 he Constitutional Society 
LAW 3092 Who did you hear, what member of the Constitutional Society, express such an idea
LAW 3094 And Yorke you say approved of that idea
LAW 3096 ’ Did you ever hear him mention any particular sortof arms as distinguished from armsif general 
LAW 3098 Did you never hear him recommend any particular species of arms to be used for this purpose 
LAW 3100 By whom was he shown that blade 
LAW 3102 Who is Henry Hill
LAW 3104 What is his way of life 
LAW 3108 Did he mention any other sort of arms
LAW 3110 Instruments 
LAW 3112 Had you ever any conversation with him respecting muskets
LAW 3114 You showed him a pike, did he approve orSisapprove of the form of .the pike that you ! showed him 
LAW 3116 Did he suggest any alteration to be made in the form of the pike
LAW 3118 What other pike was shown him with re spect to which he did suggest any alteration
LAW 3120 Were you present
LAW 3122 Did you ever hear him talk of that other pike which you believe to have been shown to him
LAW 3124 Had you before Yorke came amongst you had any recommendation of arming tur the detence of your societies ? 
LAW 3127 How soon after this pike was shown to Mr. Yorke do you knowof any being begun to be made at Sheffield 
LAW 3129 Do you know of any considerable quantity being made after that time 
LAW 3131 Ry whom were these three dozen made 
LAW 3133 Do you know one Widdison of Fargatestreet in Sheffield, a turner 
LAW 3135 Do you know whether he was employed in making any part of these pikes
LAW 3137 Had you any conversation with Widdison in the presence of Yorke
LAW 3139 Were you never at Yorke'’s lodgings with Widdison 
LAW 3141 Did you ever see a pike handle at Widdison’s in the same form as that you showed toYorke 
LAW 3143 Of the same form as that you showed to, Yorke 
LAW 3147 Was it in the day time or at night that you went to Yorke’s about them 
LAW 3149 What time of night 
LAW 3151 Did Yorke take it in his Hand 
LAW 3153 Did he lvok at it for any length of time 
LAW 3155 Do you recollect what he said upon looking at it, whether it would do or not 
LAW 3157 But that he approved of that 
LAW 3159 From the conversation which passed between Yorke and Hill and you, could you collect whether Yorke bud had any pikes showa him before of a construction which he did notapprove 
LAW 3162 Recollect yourself—of what number of persons might that meeting con-sist at which Yorke reccommended them to! provide themselves with arms 
LAW 3164 How many persons were present
LAW 3166 Was there any other time besides that once when he recommended providing yourselves with arms
LAW 3168 Do you recollect any meeting in the month of March, at which the providing of arms was talked of 
LAW 3170 Yes
LAW 3172 ‘Have the goodness fo recollect yourself; you were present at a mecting in March
LAW 3174 I am not speaking of a meeting of the society, but were you present in company with Yorke, and others, at any meeting in the month of March 1794, when Yorke recommended the use of arms or providing of arms
LAW 3176 On the Castle Hill—Do you remember a Meeting on the Castle Hill
LAW 3178 Did he recommend any thing of the kind then
LAW 3180 You know one Davison who lived with Gale the printer 
LAW 3182 Did you ever see any pikes when he was present 
LAW 3184 Did you in his presence 
LAW 3186 Do you know one Robert Moody 
LAW 3188 Do you remember any meeting in the month of April, or in any month in the year 1794 when Mr. Yorke recommended the providing themselves with arms
LAW 3190 Do you remember any speech made by : Yorke upon the Castle Hill at Sheffield 
LAW 3192 What did he recommend in that speech respecting the reform of parliament 
LAW 3194 Did be recommend to them not to petition parliament, or what? 
LAW 3196 Did he recommend that parliament should be petitioned, or that they should mot
LAW 3198 Did he recommend any other means
LAW 3200 Did you hear an address to the pation ever talked of
LAW 3202 Was it recommended by Yorke
LAW 3204 Suppose you tell us the fact what you mean’ by conducted home 
LAW 3206 Drawn by the people in triumph 
LAW 3208 Did you ever hear Mr. Yorke say any thing respecting a convention 
LAW 3210 Never 
LAW 3212 Did you ever hear him mention what would be the best means of redressing grievances
LAW 3214 And have never sworn that you heard him say a word of that sort—Never about a redress of grievances
LAW 3216 Or any thing respecting conventions 
LAW 3218 On what ground did he profess himself to disapprove of the Scotch Convention
LAW 3220 In what respect did he mean unprepared 
LAW 3222 Did he mention any steps that they should have taken preparatory to assembling a con; vention 
LAW 3224 You were down at Edinburgh 
LAW 3226 Did he state any thing that they should have done before they declared themselves 9 British Convention 
LAW 4884  Where do you live 
LAW 4886 You keep a public-house there, the Bunch of Grapes
LAW 4888 Have you ever been at Spence’s with Nodder 
LAW 4890 How long ago is it since you first went to Shelmerdine’s if ever you were there 
LAW 4892 What was the occasion of your going there
LAW 4894 Did youseeany fire-arms there
LAW 4896 Whom did they belong to 
LAW 4898 Where were they
LAW 4900 What is Shelmerdine
LAW 4902 On what day was this
LAW 4904 Do you know of how many persons this armed society consisted? 
LAW 4957 Were you a member of the 13th division 
LAW 4959 Did that meet at Robins’s Coffee-house, in Shire-lane
LAW 4961 Do you remember, upon the 3rd of May, any member giving an account of the time when Mr. Pitt would probably be at the House of Commons 
LAW 4963 What was the conversation that passed in the presence of those members, respecting the circumstance I bave mentioned 
LAW 4968 Was it a member of the division 
LAW 4970 What did this member say 
LAW 4972 Did he accompany that with any observation
LAW 4974 Was any thing farther said, al what bridge 
LAW 4976 Was any piece of good news, or any thing they called good news, announced, at that time, by one of the members
LAW 4978 Vhat was it
LAW 4980 Was that called good news 
LAW 4982 Do you recollect any thing being .mentioned, with respect to any of the king’s messenvers
LAW 4984 What was that
LAW 4986 Do you remenr a member of that soelety of the naine cf Tgsuis
LAW 4988 Do you remember any observation that a member made, respecting any of his relations 
LAW 4990 Had who been
LAW 4992 Was that man a near relation of any of the king’s messengers 
LAW 4994 Was that said by Higgins 
LAW 4996 Was any thing mentioned, by way of caution, to the members, for fear of spies
LAW 4998 Do you remember any proposition for subdividing the meetings into a less number 
LAW 5001 Was the proposition acceded to
LAW 5003 Was there any mention of any one of the committee being a spy
LAW 5005 Was any thing said what should be done, if any spy was discovered among you
LAW 5007 You had a misket
LAW 5009 From whom 
LAW 5011 That musket you bave now 
LAW 5698  Were you present at the Globe-tavern, in the Strand, on the 20th of January, 1794
LAW 5700 At a general meeting of the London Corresponding Society 
LAW 5702 Were you a member of that society 
LAW 5704 When did you become a member of thst society 
LAW 5706 What was your inducement to become 8 wrailies of that society
LAW 5708 You became a member for the purpose of discovering their proceedings 
LAW 5710 There is no occasion for mentioning the name’; relate as well as you can what on the 20th of January, 1794, at the Globetavern 
LAW 5712 Do you recollect any particular toast that j was drank upon that occasion
LAW 5714 You toe no paper that you had at the time 
LAW 5716 Do you recollect any conversation held by any of the members of that society at that meeting—what was the language
LAW 5718 Was it mentioned in that society by what means those objects were to be obtained 
LAW 5720 Did you hear at any subsequent meeting any conversation with any member of the Corresponding Society by what means that object was to be obtained 
LAW 5723 What was publicly professed in any of the meetings of that society to be the object and the means 
LAW 5725 Did they say how they were to carry into effect that purpose 
LAW 5729 Do you recollect any conversation held by persons whom you recollect to have been members of the London Corresponding Society respecting the means by which these objects were to be obtained 
LAW 5731 Were you present at any lecture of Mr. Thelwall’s
LAW 5733 What was the sort of exhortation, the object of those lectures 
LAW 5735 Tam not asking your opinion of their general tendency, but what was the substance of them 
LAW 5737 Did he speak of the branches of the legislature 
LAW 5739 In what manner did he represent them? 
LAW 5740 —In every way that was truly ridiculous. 
LAW 5741 In what manner did he speak of his majesty
LAW 5780 State any conversation and transactions at that mecting which you recollect by any persons whom you have since known to be members of the London Corresponding Society ; what was proposed to be done there
LAW 5782 Have you no other recollection of what you heard read or spoken
LAW 5786 Were any printed papers delivered at that mecting 
LAW 5788 Have you any of them 
LAW 5790 “ At a General Mecting of the London Corres“ ponding Society, Aed on the Green, at “ Chalk Farm, on Monday the 14th of April, “1794, J. Lovett in the Chater, the follow“ing Letters were read : 
LAW 5791 “ To the Chairman of the Society of the Friends of the People. 
LAW 5792  Sir; At a crisis so important as the pre-, 
LAW 5793 sent there needs no apology on the part of the London Corresponding Society,’ for addressing itself to all other associated societies, who have in view the same object as themselves. To the ‘ Society of the Friends of the “ People,’ arguments are not wanting to show the importance and absolute necessity of a full and fair representation of the people of Great Britain. They have investigated the subject for themselves; they have exposed to the world a series of plain and indisputable facts, which must excite in the mind of every man well disposed to his country, apprehensions of alarm for the security of the few remaining vestiges of liberty, from which, as Britons, we derive consolation. Deeply impressed with considerations of this nature, the London Corresponding Society earnestly solicits, at this time, tle concurrence and assistance of the Society of the Friends of the People, in assembling, as speedily as the nature of the business will admit, a Coavention of the Friends of Freedom, for the purpose of obtaining, in a legal and constitutional method, a full and effectual representation. 
LAW 5794 ‘ Our request is not made from the impressions of the moment, but after the maturcst deliberations on the value and importance of the object for which we are contending, and of the difficulties we may expect fram those whose present interests render them hostile to the welfare of their country. 
LAW 5795 he opposition of such persons is no small argument for the goodness of our cause ; and their late conduct when compared with their former professions, exhibits a depravity, leled, we trust, on the page of history. 
LAW 5796 “ Under the a ay of apostate reformers, we have lately beheld serious and alarming encroachments on the liberties of the people. 
LAW 5797 “ We have seen with indignation and horror men legally and peaceubly assembled, dispersed by unconstitutional powers, and: their papers seized. 
LAW 5798 “ We have scen some of our most virtuous brethren, whose only crime has been an imi. tation of Mr. Prrr and his associates, sentenced to fourteen years transportation, without the sanction of law or even of precedent, of which number, one was held up in the British parliament as convicted and condemned, before he was even put upon his trial. 
LAW 5799 he insidious attempts also to introduce forcign troops into this country, without the consent of parliament, and the intended bill to embody foreigners into his majesty’s service, are measures suthciently calculated to awaken our fears for the existence even of the name of liberty. Nor can we overlook that part of the present system of corupeih, which maintains out of the public plunder, train of spies, more dangerous to society than so many assassins, whose avowed business is to destroy the friends of the country, one by one, 
LAW 5800 “ These are grievances which demand im mediate redress, and when added to thos evils which are necessarily connected with every partial representation of the people, cs! for the strenuous exertions of every live Cs his country. 
LAW 5801 “ But we are told that the present is not the time for reform, and that innovation may introduce disturbance. Are those persons to judge of the proper time to make returm, who exist only by corruption? Are the people of Britain to endure every thing without repining, without ardently seeking a radical reform, because disturbances may happen? Have the enemies to reform told us whence these disturbances are to originate? Mas a single overt act been committed by the friends to freedom? Have not all the riots, all the public disturbances, all the seditious assem lies been excited by the enemies to reform? And do they mean to tell us that they will still find other instruments for their wicked designs ; that they have yet those who will act over avain the outrages that have been perpetrated in some parts of Britain, and attempted in others ? 
LAW 5802 f such is the determination of those persons hostile to a fair representation, et them look to the consequences, but let them recollect that it has happened, and may happen again, that those who kindled the flames have perished by them. 
LAW 5803 “ The friends to reform are friends to peace, their principles can be promoted only by peaceable means, they know of no other me thod of obtaining the object they desire. But they will not be alarmed by the threats ot venal apostates, they will not draw back because they have seen some of their best friends doomed to exile. They will pursue the course in which they have begun, and turn neither to the right nor to the left. 
LAW 5804 “ Convinced as the London Corresponding Society is, that as there is no power which ought, so there is no power which oan finally withstand the just and steady demands of 3 people resolved to be free ; they will thesefare look with confidence to the determination, and they hope to the co-operation of the ‘ Suciety of the Friends of the People, m the attainment of an object which involves the dearest interests of society. 
LAW 5805 “ Convinced also that their intentions are of the purest kind, they will never stoop to answer the calumnies of their enemies; but will at all times, and in all circumstances, endeavour, by firmness and perseverance, to deserve the countenance and approbation of the best friends of their country, the friends of a fair Representation of the People of Great Britain. —I am, sir, tor the London Corresponding Society, ‘THOMAS HARDY, Scc. 
LAW 5806 “ April 4, 1794. 
LAW 5807 “ COMMITTEE ROOM, 
LAW 5808 “ Frith-street, April t1, 1794. 
LAW 5809 s¢ Sir, Your letter of the 4th instant, addressed to Mr. Snertpan, chairman of: the FRIENDS OF THE PEOPLE, was laid before that SOCIETY at their meeting on Saturday last; and they instructed their committee to thank the LONDON CORRESPONDING SOCIETY for their communication, and to express the alarm they feel in common with every Friend ot Liberty, at the late extraordinary proceedings of Government, so ably detailed, and so justly reprobated by your Society. They assure you that all the Friends of Reform, may ‘look with confidence “to the determination and co-operation’ of this society in every peaccable and constitutional measure, which shall appear to them calculated to promote the object of their institution; but they do not think that which is recommended in your letter, is likely to serve its professed purpose. ‘They fear it will furnish the Enemies of Reform with the means of calumniating its advocates, and so far from forwarding the cause, will deter many from eountenancing that which they approve. For these reasons, the Friends of the People must decline to send Delegates to the convention proposed by the London Corresponding Soeiety : at the same time they renew their assurances of good will, and desire of preserving a proper understanding and cordiality among all the Friends of Parliamentary Reform, notwithstanding any difference of opinion that may occur as to the best method ef accomplishing it
LAW 5811 Was that letter from the Friends of the People read there 
LAW 5813 How was it received? — With universal silence, I believe; I do not recollect any approbation of it. “ Do you recollect any marks of the contrary 
LAW 5815  The following RESOLUTIONS were then N passed Unanimously : 
LAW 5816 Resolved Unanimously,—1. That this society have beheld with rising indignation, prepemone’d to the enormity of the evil, the jate rapid advancesof despotism in Britain; the invasion of public security, the contempt of popular opinion, and the violation of all those provisions of the Constitution intended to protect ‘the People against the encroachments of Power and Dreetistive, ; 
LAW 5817 “2. That our abhorrence and detestation have been particularly called forth by the late arbitrary and flagitious proceedings of the Court of Justiciary-in Scotland, where all the doctrines and practices of the Star Chamber, in the times of Charles the 1st, Have ‘beer revived and aggravated ; and where sentences have been pronounced in open violation of all law and justice, which must strike deep into the heart of every man, the melancholy conviction that BriTons ARE NO LONGER FREE. 
LAW 5818 “3. That the whole proceedings of the late British Convention of the People at Edinburgh, are such as claim our approbation ana applause. 
LAW 5819 4, That the conduct of citizens Mancaror and Gerratop in particular, by its strict conformity with our wishes and instructions, and the ability, firmness, and disinterested triotism which it so eminently displayed, a inspired an enthusiasm of Zeal and Attachment which no time can obliterate, and no persecution remove; and that'we will preserve their names engraven on‘our hearts till we have an opportunity to redress theiy wrongs. 
LAW 5820 «5. That any attempt to violate those yet remaining laws, which were intended for the security of Englishmen against the Tyranny ot Courts and Ministers, and ‘the Corruption of dependent Judges, by vesting in such Judges a legislative or arbitrary power (such as has lately been exercised by the Court of Justiciary in Scotland) ought to be considered as dissolving entirely the social compact between the English nation and their Governors; and driving them to an immediate appeal to that incontrovertible maxim of eternal justice, that the safety of the people is the suPREME, and in cases of necessity, the ONLY law, 
LAW 5821 “6. That the arming and disciplining in this country, either with or without the consent of parliament, any bands of emigrants and foreigners, driven from their own country Jor their known attachment to an INFAMOUS DESPOTISM, is an outrageous attempt to orer awe and intimidate the free spirit of Britons; to subjugate them to an army of mercenary cut-throats, whose views and interest must of necessily be in direct opposition to those of the Nation, and that xo pretence whatever eucnt to induce the people to submit to so unconstitutional a measure. 
LAW 5822 “6. That the unconstitutional projevt of raising money and troops by forced benevo lences (and no benevolences collected upon fequisition from the king or his ministers can ever in reality be voluntary) and the equally unjustifiable measure of arming one part 0! the people against the other, brought Charles the first to the block, and drove James the second and his posterity from the throne; and that consequently ministers in advising such measures, ought to consider whether they are not guilty of high treason. 
LAW 5823 “8. That this society have beheld with’ 
LAW 5824 considerable pleasure the consistent respect which the House of Lords displayed for their own constitutional rules and orders, on the 4th of the present month, upon the motion of Earl Stanhope, concerning the interference of ministers in the internal government of France; and that it is the firm conviction of this society, that this circumstance when properly detailed, will have a considerable effect in convincing the country at large, of the true dignity and utility of that branch of HIS MAJESTY’s PARLIAMENT. -“9. That the thanks of this meeting be given to Eart Stanuore, for his manly and patriotic conduct during the present session of parliament ; a conduct whic! (ueeyperteal as at has been in the senate, of which ne is so truly. honourable a member) has, together with the timely interference of certain spirited and patriotic associations, been nevertheless already productive of the salutary effect of chasing the Hessian and Hanoverian Mercenaries from our coasts; who, but for these exertions, might have been marched perhaps, ere this, intu the very heart of the country, together with others of their countrymen, to have peopled the sarracxs, which every where insult the eyes of Britons. 
LAW 5825 “ 40. That it is the firm conviction of this society, that a steady perseverance in the same bold and energetic sentiments, which have lately been avowed by the Friends of Freedom, cannot fail of crowning with ultimate triumph, the virtuous cause in which we are engaged; since whatever may be the interested opinion of hereditary senators, or acked majorities of pretended representatives, tuth and Liberty, in an age soen lightened as the Present, must be Invincible and Omnipotent. 
LAW 5826 “ This Society having already addressed M. Margarot, their Delegate, an ADDRESS to JOSEPH GERRALD was read as follows, and carried unanimously. 
LAW 5827 o JOSEPH GERRALD, a prisoner senfenced by the High Court of Justiciary of Scotland, to Transportation d the Seas for FOURTEEN YEARS? 
LAW 5828 “ We behold in you our beloved and rewet friend and fellow-citizen, a Martyr to the Glorious Cause of Equal Representation, and we cannot permit you to leave this degraded country without expressing the infinite obligations the people at large, and we in particular, owe to you for your very spirited exer— tions m that cause upon every occasion ; but upon nene more conspicuously, than during fthe sitting of the Britis Convention of the
LAW 5829 PEOPLE at Edinburgh, and the consequent proceeding (we will not call it trial) at the ber of the Court of Justiciary. 
LAW 5830 “We know not which most deserves our admiration, the splendid talents with which you are so eminently distinguished, the exalted virtues by which they have been directed, the perseverance and undaunted firmness which you so nobly displayed in resisting the wrongs of your insulted and oppressed country, or your present manly and philosophical suffering under an arbitrary, and till of late unprecedented sentence: a sentence one of the most vindictive and cruel that has been pronounced since the days of that most infamous and ever-to-be-detested Court of Star-Chamber, the enormous tyranny of which cost the first Charles his head. 
LAW 5831 o you and your associates we feel ourselves most deeply indebted. For us it is that you are suffering the sentence of transportation with felons, the vilest outcasts af society! For us it is that you are doomed to the inhospitable shores of New Holland ; where, however, we doubt not you will experience considerable alleviation by the remembrance of that vinrvous conpuct for which it is imposed on you, and by the sincere regard and esteem of your fellow citizens. 
LAW 5832 “ The equal laws of this country have, for ages past, been the boast of its inhabitants; but whither are they now fled? We are animated by the same sentiments, are daily repeating the same words, and committing the same actions for which you are thus infamously sentenced ; and we will repeat and commit them until we have obtained redress; 
LAW 5833 et we are unpunished! either therefore the law is unjust towards you in inflicting Py nishment on the exertions of Virtue and Telents, or it ought not to deprive us of cur share in the story of the Martyrdom. 
LAW 5834 “ We again, therefore, pledge ourselves to you and to our country, never to cease demanding our rights from those who have usurped them, until having obtained an Equal Representation of the People, we shall be enabled to hail you once more with triumph to your native country. We wish you Health and Happiness; and be assured we never, never shall forget your Name, your Vir tues, nor YouR Great ExamPte. 
LAW 5835 “ The London Corresponding Society. “ JOHN LOVETT, Chairman. “ THOMAS HARDY, Secretay. “ The 14th of April, 1794. 
LAW 5836 “ Tt was also unanimously resolved, hat the Committee of Correspondence be directed to convey the ayes of this society—1. To Archibald Hamilton Rowaa, prisoner in the Newgate of the city of Dublin, for his unshaken attachment to the 
LAW 5837 Lind and for his spirited assertion of iete rights. 
LAW 5838 fe 2. To John Philpot Curran for his admirable and energetic defence of A. H. Rowan, and the principles of liberty, as well as for his patriotic conduct in parliament. 
LAW 5839 83, To the society of United Irishmen in Dublin, and to exhort them to persevere in their exertions to obtain justice for the people of Ircland. 
LAW 5840 “4, To Skirving, Palmer, and Muir, suffering the same iniquitous sentences, and in the same cause witli our delegates. 
LAW 5841 “ To John Clarke and Alexander Reid, for their so readily and disinterestedly giving bail for our delegates, instigated thereto solely by their attachment to hberty, uninfluenced by any personal consideration. 
LAW 5842 “6. To Adam Gillics, Malcolm Laing, and James Gibson, for their able assistance given to Joseph Gerrald, at the bar of the high Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh. 
LAW 5843 “7, To felicitate Thomas Walker, of Manchester, and the people at large on the event of his, as well as several other late trials, and on the developement of the infamy of a system of spies and informers. 
LAW 5844 “8. To sir Joseph Mawhey, for his manly conduct at the late surreptitious mecting held at Epsom in Surrey. 
LAW 5845 “ It was also unanimously Resolved, —That two hundred thousand copies of the Proceedings and Resolutions of this mecting be printed and published. 
LAW 5846 “ J. LOVETT, Chairman. «. HARDY, Secretary. 
LAW 5847 “ Resolved,—That the thanks of this meeting be given tothe Chairman, for his manly and impartial conduct this day. 
LAW 5848 , HARDY, Secretary, 
LAW 5849 With whom did you go to this meeting 
LAW 5851 How came you to know that the meeting was to be held at Chalk Farm? Had you any Teason to expect it to be held at any other place
LAW 5853 “ Was the change of place intimated to you 
LAW 5855 Who told you it was to be at Chalk Farm? Thelwall. 
LAW 5856 Did he tell you why it was given out to be held in Store-street 
LAW 5858 Were there any written or printed papers giving notice at Store-street, informing persons the meeting would be held at Chalk Farm
LAW 5860 Who proposed Mr. Lovett’s being put in the chair
LAW 5862 Who were the principal persons who spoke and acted in that meeting 
LAW 5864 Did Mr. Thelwall make a speech at thak meeting 
LAW 5866 Do you recollect any thing particular in either of those speeches respecting spies or informers 
LAW 5868 Who read the resolutions
LAW 5870 ‘Do you remember any objection being made to the words ‘ a British Senate,’ in one of those resolutions
LAW 5872 By whom was that objection made
LAW 5874 Do you recollect Mr. Thelwall saying any thing upon that subject
LAW 5876 After that meeting was over, where did you adjourn to ; where did -you spend your evening; do you recollect any thing particular that Mr. Hardy said or did at that meeting
LAW 5884 Do you remember any mention of a future meeting to be held-of the society 
LAW 5886 Do you recollect who mentioned that 
LAW 5888 After the business of the day was over, where did you adjourn to for supper
LAW 5890 Were suppers provided at other divisions 
LAW 5892 Who was chairman 
LAW 5894 Do you recollect any remarkable language used by Thelwall during supper, or incourse of that evening
LAW 5896 But one or other of those expressions you are certain to 
LAW 5898 What was that toast 
LAW 5900 The lamp-iron
LAW 5902 Did he call upon any body else for another toast 
LAW 5904 What was it covered with 
LAW 5906 Were those toasts drank by the persons then assembled 
LAW 5908 And the persons assembled consisted of members of that division of the Corresponding Society 
LAW 5910 Do you know a person of the name of Green 
LAW 5912 Is he a member of. the Corresponding Socjety 
LAW 5914 What conversation had you with him at the time he was a member of the Corresponding Society, respecting universal sufirage, and annual parliaments 
LAW 5916 What did he say respecting the geneyal object of their plan, what they iined at attaining 
LAW 5918 Was he of the same division with yourself
LAW 5920 Where was it
LAW 5923 Where is the house in which this passed
LAW 5925 Did he say any thing respecting the use parliament was of Yes. 
LAW 5930 Did Green show you a knife of any particular construction
LAW 5934 Describe the form of them, have you got one of them 
LAW 5936 Have you seen a French knife 
LAW 5938 Were they fixed like a common case knife
LAW 5940 You observed several of them with those knives
LAW 5942 You do not recollect, I believe, who the persons were that were using themi—Yes, one. 
LAW 5943 Who was that
LAW 5945 Having seen these knives when in company with Green, and he was making this dec tion, did you apply to him about a knife, or did he show you a knife of that same construction
LAW 5947 Did you learn from Green what number of these knives he had sold
LAW 5986 Can you ascertain at what part of the month 
LAW 5988 What was the number of your division 
LAW 5990 I thought tha: had been the number of the house 
LAW 5992 Look at that paper, and say, whether that is the paper that was read at the meeting in February last, at your division? —This paper I am very sure was delivered; I need not look at the contents, because there are my initials upon it. Itwasread] . “RIGHTS OF SWINE; “ An Address tothe Poor. Printed in the year 1794. “ Talso will show mine opinion. 
LAW 5993 a method founde to prevent the poor from wanting bread, be the state of trade whatever it ma are the ence? moulded into many shapes for the use of mai but chiefly into bread, which is the staff o life; and from grass, we derive our flesh milk, butter, cheese, &c. besides wool an leather, which, I think, with the addition 9 coal, and a few other mincrals nearly makeup the real necessaries of life. 
LAW 5994 “Ward indeed must be the heart which ig unaffected with the present distress experienced by the poor in general in this commers cial nation. Thousands of honest and industrious people in Great Britain are literally starving for want of bread; and the cause invariably assigned is a stagnant commerce, My opinion on this subject will perhaps ape pear to some a strange phenomena—it is, that a stagnant commerce is not the real cause of the want of the necessaries of life among the laborious poor. And I am confident, that, while the ‘ Earth lone her increase,’ there ig on Justice aud Reason, n the first place, then, I will ask, what rincipal sources of human subsist. Sertainly corn and grass. Corn ig ask again then, who is so infatuated ag to say, that the growing of corn or grass, ia dependent on, or connected with, the perity or adversity of trade? Certainly (thank Heaven!) they are not affected by the devouring sword, or ruined commerce (except at the. seat of war.)—Corn grows not in the loom, nor grass upon the anvil! Why isit, then, that while there is plenty of bread the poor are starving? Is there not as much grain in the land as when the trade fonsiabed? 
LAW 5995 pose trade were to rise immediately to an amazing degree, would it make one grain of corn or blade of grass? Certainly not. Why then, I ask again, are the poor, who are the 
LAW 5996 TOS 
LAW 5997 ? Suppeculiar care of Him who delights to da his heedy creatures good, not satisfied with the good of the land 
LAW 5998 “ The following reasons are at least satisfactory to myself : Because, in the time of national prosperity, house and land rent (consequently provisions) are always raised by the, wealthy and voluptuous, till they are, at least, at par with high wages; but, when Waa, or. any other cause, has ruined or impeded commerce, and reduced sues penis and provia sions remain unabated. The poor callicoweavers in the vicinity af Manchester, notoriously illustrate thig argument, as they are now (they who can get any) working for fifty and sixty per cent. less wageathan at this time twa years back, and the necessaries of life are, rather augmented in their prices than dimir nished!! : 
LAW 5999 “ Hearken, O ye poor of the Land! While great men have an unbounded power to raise their rents and your provisiona, and, at the same time, an uncontrolled power to make War, and consequently to dry up, or diminish, the sources of your income, your subsistence will, at tha beat, be precerjaus, and your very existence often miserable !—The present want of bread amongst the poor, is not owing to the want of grain in the world, nor, I presume, in this land, but owing to the price of it being excessively above the price of labour. When, therefore, the price of labour cannot be brought up to the rate of provisions, provisions should be reduced to the rate of labour. Till this is practicable, the poor are miserable ! 
LAW 6000 During the last twenty years, mechanical wages have been varied, according to circumstances, several times, and not unusually in some branches, twenty, thirty, forty, and even fifty per cent
LAW 6002 What can be more odious in the sight of heaven, than feast and famine in the same nation? Yet this is literally the case in this kingdom, at this moment, and not only in the nation, but in every town, in every street, yea, often under the very same roof! 
LAW 6003 ani his balance of sent at the dinner at the Crown 
LAW 6004 “ Open your eyes, O ye poor of the iand! 
LAW 6005 —in vain are your hands and your mouths open! Do you not see how you are cajoled and degraded, by the paltry subscriptions made for you, at different times and in various parts of the nation; which serve only to make poe slavery more servile, and your misery of longer duration? I revere gencrous subscribers collectors, but I scorn the means! Ye poor, take a farther look into your rights, and you will see, that, upon the principles of 
LAW 6006 Teason and justice, every peaceable and useful person has a right, yea, a “ Divine Right to be satisfied with the good of the land! Besides, is it not monstrously provoking to be robbed by wholesale, and relieved by retail! Look again, and you will see that public collections, subscriptions, and charities, are nothing more than the appendages of corruption, extortion, and oppression ! If the benevolent Father of the universe did not send amongst mankind provisions enough, and more than foneh, such is the waste of the great and the gluttonous, that many of you poor, would get none at all! Say not, therefore, ye oppressed, “ there ts a famine, or scarcity of provisions in the land!" It would be false. the Jand contains plenty; and if provisions were (as they ought‘to be) reduced to your wages, you would enjoy your unquestionable right, a comfortable sufficiency. 
LAW 6007 “ But, besides the destruction of your trade, and the means of subsistence, you have the mortification to sec your bread eaten by dragoon and hunting horses, spanicls, &c. and your parental, affectionate, loving, provident and tender guardians, can give yous good reason why—it is their own ! 
LAW 6008 “ Hearken! O ye poor of the land! Do you fret and whine at oppression—‘ yes ‘— ‘Then, as ye do, so did your fathers betore you ’—and, if you do no more, your childrea may whine after you! Awake! Arise! arm ourselves—with truth, justice and reason— lay siege to corruption; and your unity and invincibility shall teach your oppressors terrible things! Purge the Representation of your Country—claim, as your inalienable right, Universal Suffrage, and Annual Parliaments. And whenever you have the ification to choose a representative, let him be from among the lower order of men, and he will know how to sympathize with you, and represent you in character. Then, and net till then, shall you experience universal Peace and incessant rare es 
LAW 6009 “ A FRIEND TO THE POOR, 
LAW 6010 “ Stockport, Jan. 5, 1794. 
LAW 6011 I think you say you 
LAW 6012 Ayes on the 2nd of May 
LAW 6014 Were you admitted by any ticket 
LAW 6016 Who fumished you with that ticket 
LAW 6018 By whom did you understand those tickets were given
LAW 6020 Chief Justice Eyre.—At what time did he bring it to you 
LAW 6024 This was a meeting of the Constitutional Society 
LAW 6026 Did you go as a member of the Corresponding Society 
LAW 6028 Do you kuow what number of those tickets were delivered out for the Corresponding Society 
LAW 6030 Do you know what number of the Corresponding Society there were there that were net members of the Constitutional Society
LAW 6032 Do you recollect before dinner any news coming of any particular public event, and what’ was said in the society upon that 
LAW 6034 Was it good or bad news to this country 
LAW 6036 In the Constitutional Society, and in this assembly, consisting of members of both societies, was there any joy shown, or otherwise
LAW 6038 Was there any song sung that you recollect by the uame of the Free Constitution
LAW 6040 Did you see any papers of apy sort laid upon the plates in the room
LAW 6042 Was it of the same sort with the one you have stated to have been delivered in the outer room 
LAW 6046 You cannot say whether the Paper laid on the plate was the same as the song, or not
LAW 6048 ho was in the chair at that dinner 
LAW 6050 Was Mr. Horne Tooke there 
LAW 6052 Do you know lord Daer
LAW 6054 Mention the names of any persons youi particularly remember to have been present 
LAW 6056 Do you know Mr. Frost
LAW 6060 Was Mr. Hardy there 
LAW 6062 Do you know Thelwall 
LAW 6064 Richter 
LAW 6066 Lovett 
LAW 6068 Was Moore there 
LAW 6070 Pearce 
LAW 6072 Was Jones there 
LAW 6074 He was a member of the London Cortes. ponding Society I believe 
LAW 6077 No.—What songs were sung, do you recollect? do you know a song by the name of Ca tra 
LAW 6079 Before dinner are you speaking of —E think all the time we were at dinner; I think it Played Ca Ira almost from beginning to end; it was encored time after time. Do you recollect the music of any other song that was played 
LAW 6081 Did the company seem to be pleased with the music, did 1t meet with any applause 
LAW 6083 Do you recollect any particular toast drank after dunes 
LAW 6085 ‘Do you recollect none of the toasts 
LAW 6087 Do you recollect any particular address that was made to the company then present, by Mr. Horne Tooke
LAW 6089 State, as faras you can, the words, if not the words, the substance of that address 
LAW 6091 To the best of your recollection, what was it Mr. Horne Tooke delivered in that address
LAW 6099 Was ay him 
LAW 6101 Did be mention any thing farther respecting the king 
LAW 6103 Did he state what was the ebject of his address, or of his measures 
LAW 6105 Was any song sung oie tune of God save the King 
LAW 6107 De you recollect Mr. Horne Tooke’s saying any thi ing the song thst had been sang to that tune
LAW 6111 Do you recollect Mr. Tooke’s simgmg, or reciting, any lines of a song to that tuee
LAW 6113 thing farther said by lect; yes, I think he saidNi 
LAW 6114 Mr. Horne Tooke sung that song; or he sung an additional verse, which he said had been 
LAW 6115 ‘| forgot. 
LAW 6116 hat did he supply
LAW 6118 What was the name of that song? you said that a song, intituled the Free Constitution, was delivered to the members before dinner
LAW 6120 Do you recollect the first line of the song that was sung to the tune of God save the King
LAW 6163 My lord, I take it that the channels for information must be protected. 
LAW 6186 He did not state any title. 
LAW 7519  Were you at Chalk-farm on the 14th of April
LAW 7521 Do you remember Richter being there 
LAW 7523 Do you remember any thing being said by him, or any body else, a calling a convention
LAW 7525 Did you hear whether the word conventica was mentioned by him 
LAW 7527 But did any thing accompany the word convention 
LAW 7529 Did you hear any thing about corresponding with other societies 
LAW 7531 —I do. 
LAW 7532 What did he propose
LAW 7534 Did you distinctly hear any thing said about arms
LAW 7538 Do you remember a person stating himself lately to have come from Ireland
LAW 7540 Was the prisoner there 
LAW 7671  Look at these papers—were they printed by you
LAW 7674 Certainly it is a paper of a seditious tendency—it was opened by Mr. Attorney General, as a description of the Ins and Outs, advising the people to provide themselves with arms. Without saying whether you published it, did you receive from any body, any application or any re uest to print a paper of those contents
LAW 7676 From whom
LAW 7678 Where doos he live
LAW 7680 ‘When were you applied to 
LAW 7682 Hodgson has been already proved to bea member of the Corresponding Society. 
LAW 7683 [od Chief Justice Eyre.—What was it he brought to you, a printed paper, or a manuscript
LAW 7685 A manuscript copy of that paper which I have now shown you 
LAW 7687 The Ins tell us we arein dangerof invasion from the French. 
LAW 7688 he Outs tell us that we are in danger from the Hessians and Hanoverians. 
LAW 7689 Tn either case we should arm ourselves ; get arms, and Jearn how to use them. 
LAW 9485  You never heard of a letter from Sheffield about pikes 
LAW 9487 Did you never read that letter
LAW 9489 You never have read it. You say you have read the reports of the secret committee ; have yu never read it there 
LAW 9491 You continue a member of the Corresponding Society to this moment
LAW 9493 Did you ever see a paper like that circulated? —Inever have before now, I have heard of it, but I never saw it before. 
LAW 9494 Who introduced you into the society: A telation of mine. 
LAW 9495 Has he a name 
LAW 9497 Did you attend the meeting of the society retty constantly 
LAW 9499 May I take the liberty of asking how you get your livelihood
LAW 9501 You live upon your property 
LAW 9503 Inthe funds, or snort uaees, or what 
LAW 9505 Were you at Chalk-farm 
LAW 9507 And at the Globe-tavern —Yes. 
LAW 9508 Were you at the dinner on the 2ud of May? Can you recollect whether you dined at the Crown and Anchor when Mr. Wharton was in the chair
LAW 9510 Were you or not there 
LAW 9512 Were you or not there on the 2nd of May, without reference to who was in the chair 
LAW 9516 Did you ever dine, as a guest, with the Constitutional Society 
LAW 9518 Have you been at the Globe-tavern, and at Chalk-farm 
LAW 9520 Did you hear the resolutions which were come to at those meetings 
LAW 9522 You have said that the proceedings of the Corresponding Society were peaceable 
LAW 9524 You have said, you heard the resolutions carried at Chalk-farm—were they peaceable
LAW 9526 Did you hear them, or not; I understood you said you did hear them
LAW 9528 Did you vote for them, or no
LAW 9530 How came it that you did not vote for them 
LAW 9532 you were there, and heard them, and they made no impression upon your conduct
LAW 9534 You have said you voted for them
LAW 9536 Did you vote against them 
LAW 9538 You took no part in them 
LAW 9540 Did you sup with your division that night
LAW 9542 You said you did; where did you sup — There may bea mixture of divisions. 
LAW 9543 Where did you sup that night
LAW 9545 Was Mr. Thelwall there
LAW 9547 Do you recollect any songs being sung
LAW 9549 What were you by business, when you condescended to follow any—It is so long ago, I cannot recollect. You have fullowed business
LAW 9551 And had you forgot what business you were; were not you a hair-dresser 
LAW 9553 Had you forgotten that circumstance, when I asked you just now 
LAW 9555 But you said, it was so long ago since you were in business, that you did not know what business you followed: how long is it since you have done business as a hair-dresser 
LAW 9557 And how long since you followed the business of a perfumer
LAW 9559 Did you cease to be both at the same time
LAW 9561 About twelve years ago
LAW 9563 Then having this perfect recollection that you have been a perfumer and a hair-dresser, about twelve years ago, how came you to tell me it was so long ago, you did not recollect what business you bad carried on 
LAW 9566 I shall not ask him another question. 
LAW 10555  What is the date ? 
LAW 10788  You have said that it was your object to obtain a reform by petitioning parliament, was it your object all along to obtain a reform by petitioning parliament
LAW 10790 ‘Have you continued a member of the society up to the present time
LAW 10792 Were yu at the meeting at the Castle-hill in April last
LAW 10794 Was not the purpose of petitioning the paliament expressly negatived at that meeting
LAW 10796 Do not you know that by contrivance, tbat proposition was brought forward for the purpose of receiving a negative
LAW 10798 You heard the question put
LAW 10800 Did you read the proceedings afterwards ia Gale's paper 
LAW 10802 Whatever question was then put, was it negatived, or carried in the affirmative
LAW 10804 Were there any voices that you heard in the affirmative 
LAW 10806 Did you know the question that was about to be put 
LAW 10808 Knowing that that question had: been nege tived, and that it had been your object obtain a reform through the medium of. par liament, did you afterwards withdraw yourseli from a society which had disavowed that object
LAW 10810 Do you know of a single member havirz afterwards, in consequence of that vote, which you said you read in Gale’s paper, withdrawn himself from that society
LAW 10812 Do you know whether the proceedings of the British Convention were not approved by your society 
LAW 10814 Pires not there a vote of approbation in society of the proceedings of that convention
LAW 10816 Did' you, before the meeting, know either from Broomhead or Camage, or any body else, that the question for another applicatioa to parliament, which was put on the Castle billin April, 1794, was meant to be put for the purpose of being negatived !—No, I dd not, and I have had’ correspondence with Broomhead these: fifteen years; I have within a hundred yards of him for twelve fourteen years. 
LAW 10817 Then do you believe, or not, that it was or not put for the purpose of being negatived
LAW 10819 Do you know who is the author of the paper called the Patriot 
LAW 10821 Do you know one Brown
LAW 10823 Your delegate to the convention
LAW 10825 Do you know whether he was the author?petitions had none before; but they expected that when the societies in different parts of 
LAW 10826 Have you ever conversed with Brown aboutEngland had sent delegates, that if those defe that publication 
LAW 10828 legates, as representatives of large bodies of 
LAW 10829 After you had read in Gale’s paper, thatpeople, had petitioned parliament, that it m such a question had been put and negatived, might have its effect. 
LAW 10830 tt did it still continue to be your opinion, that it 
LAW 10831 Look at that letter, and say was the object of the society still to endea-whether that is Ashton’s hand-writing ; areaVour to obtain a reform by petitioning parlia-you acquainted with his hand-writing
LAW 10833 -, his majesty. 
LAW 10834 put. " Did you ever know any petition to his ma
LAW 10835 How many hundred times have you seen 
LAW 10836 Was that question put
LAW 10838 2 Jesty prepared
LAW 10841 But, however, after the ng parliament was distinctly negatived, no 7 one of you withdrew
LAW 10843 “You said you heard nothing of arming, do you know Yorke 
LAW 10845 Did you ever hear of such a thing as a pike ing or not
LAW 10847 Can you form any judgment upon it
LAW 10849 Do you know where Ashton is at present 
LAW 10851 Where was he when you heard of him last? being prepared, or ordered, under the direction—In London. 
LAW 10852  of Yorke
