MACDONALD 1005 The reason why the jury should never separate was, that they should not give in their verdict under any improper impression : but if that should superinduce an atter impossibility that justice could be done either by the jury or the bench; pay, by the witnesses pessibly, whose recollection, if they sit up for many hours, must be extremely imperfect: and ifthe gentlemen at the bar cannot do justice to their clients on either side,—if that is the case, and justice cannot be done, you must look to the prisoner, his case requires equal regard. The prosecutor’s evidence had the opportunity of being heard when the jury were fresh; now, if they are incapacitated to attend to his case in the way that his case requires, justice will not be done to him. 
MACDONALD 1006 If we are under the absolute necessity of departing in some degree from the strict rule, I dank we'should depart as little as possible ; and, therefore, I confess the only hesitation in my mind is between the jury's being accommodated here and their going home to their own houses: I have a great deal of difficulty, I own, about that. 
MACDONALD 1021 With resi to the complaint of the privy council, there is no instance, I believe, of their ever suffering such a communication, 
MACDONALD 1393 To whom is the letter addressed ? 
MACDONALD 1406 It is certainly a case that has a great dead of doubt attending it; but at the same time I can hardly bring my own mind to consider this as falling within Mr. Garrow’s own definition. It must be something in furtherance of the conspiracy. I agree, that any act done by one, is, to a certain extent, imputable to another; that is, it may be given in evidence to show the general conspiracy in which ‘he was engaged; but an act done, appears to me to be different from the mere relation of it by another person, a mere relation of what passed given by one in a private letter to another. I have much doubt whether it is evidence that ought to be received. 1 am, myselt, inclined to reject it. 
MACDONALD 1510 On the last question before the Court I confined what I said to the exact circumstance of the case, namely, that the bare relation of acts by one of several persons to whom the conspiracy is imputed to a perfect stranger to that conspiracy, is no more than an admission which may possibly affect himself, but cannot possibly affect any of his co-conspirators, it not being an act done in the prosecution of that conspiracy. But, I confess, there appears to me a material distinction in this case. This is a paper which is addressed by one of several conspirators to another of those conspirators; it is introduced as subservient to the proof of the general nature and tendency of that conspiracy, which is alleged and endeavoured to be proved as the foundation of affecting the prisoner with a share in that conSpiracy. 
MACDONALD 1511 Now it seems to me that one conspirator addressing a paper to another conspirator, having relation to that conspiracy (not merely a bare description to a stranger), that one of them addressing that paper to the other is an act complete in that single conspirator, although that paper should be intercepted, or although it never should reach that person for whose perusal it was intended; that distinguishes this from the other case ; it is a different act in one, though it does not reach the other in that sense; it is an act by one of the conspirators, which in order to show the nature and tendency of that conspiracy may be read as against any other. 
MACDONALD 5174 Did you make that memorandum at the time 
MACDONALD 5176 7 ‘a8 this Roussel that you have mentioned? 
MACDONALD 5177 —1les, Did any thing more material pass at that tme
MACDONALD 5179 He was then suffering under the sentence of the law, I believe 
MACDONALD 5181 This was said still in the presence of Hillier
MACDONALD 5183 Was any thing more said at that meeting that was material 
MACDONALD 5185 When Uillier invited you to go to Newgate to see those persons, who did he ask you to go and see
MACDONALD 5187 Is Mr. Lloyd confined upon any sentence upon a criminal prosecution 
MACDONALD 5189 hen was the next meeting of the division 
MACDONALD 5191 Which was that 
MACDONALD 5193 Who were the persons that were present there 
MACDONALD 5195 This meeting was, I believe, at the Hope, in Northampton-street, upon the 22d of: April 
MACDONALD 5197 Who was the delegate at that meeting
MACDONALD 5199 Do. you recollect any conversation of Wright’s in the society, upon the subject of arms
MACDONALD 5201 Was that said as well in the hearing of other members as yourself
MACDONALD 5203 Who was their secretary 
MACDONALD 5205 Did you hear any obscrvations upon the subject ef arming trom Hillier, or any other member of the society besides Wright, the delegate
MACDONALD 5207 Do you remember being presentat any time at Hillier’s in the same month of April, on the 25th of April
MACDONALD 5209 Where is Hillier’s house —No. 80 or 81, Bishopsgate-street; I was told his name afterwards wasa Mr. Hicksly, and two other ersons, one of whom appeared much in iquor, the rest were sober, and there was a man of the name of Bennett, the secrelary to the 16th and 5th divisions. 
MACDONALD 5210 Was there a person there who was a mercer by. business 
MACDONALD 5212 Were there same otner persons present?of them, Bennett, went out with me into the 
MACDONALD 5213 —There were those I have stated; Hillier was present; the conversation was begun by this erson, whose name Hillier informed me was jicksly; he said he had received a letter from Sheffield, which informed him that they had a numerous meeting, and had determined to petition nu more for a parliamentary reform; he likewise said, that this letter contained the drawing of some knives which were making there, of a particular construction, for cutting of reins; the letter contained a drawing, with this observation, these are tbe instruments we shall soon use. 
MACDONALD 5214 What were they stated to be for
MACDONALD 5216 What were the knives for
MACDONALD 5218 Cutting the reins of what 
MACDONALD 5220 It was stated that those instruments were to act against the military 
MACDONALD 5222 Do you mean stated in terms, or that you collected that
MACDONALD 5296 When was he taken up? 5 
MACDONALD 7292 My reason for wishing him to be asked, whether the person, to whom he originally made the comMunication, was a istrate or not, was exactly upon the same principle as my lord chief justice now states. I could wish it to be distinctly known, whether the person to whom he first mentioned it was the person who communicated it to a magistrate, or a person who simply advised him to communicate it to a magistrate. ay. 
