MACLEAN 580 I found this letter at Mr. Adams's. 
MACLEAN 581 Alexander Grant said he believed it to be the prisoner’s hand-writing. 
MACLEAN 582 o citizen Adams, secretary to the Society for Constitational Information. “ April the 10th, 1794. 
MACLEAN 583 ’ am ordered by the committee of delegates of the London Corresponding Society to inform the Society for Constitutional Information, that they approve of the resolutions of the committee of conference. 
MACLEAN 584 “ Therefore the London Corresponding Society have chosen (five persons) to ia practice immediately the second and third resolutions of the committee. 
MACLEAN 1036 I found this letter at Mr. Adams’s. 
MACLEAN 2071 I found these papers in the possession of Mr. Adams. 
MACLEAN 2098 I found these three papers in the house of Mr. Adams. 
MACLEAN 2280 I found this letter among Mr. Adams's papers. 
MACLEAN 2281 “ Birmingham, March 25th, 1793. 
MACLEAN 2282 “ Sir, At the request of the Society for Constitutional Information, I hereby acknowledge the receipt of your letter; whereby it appears, that your society have acceded ‘to our request, by electing the persons, whose names boa Sag furnished with, as associated memin your society ; for which we beg you 
MACLEAN 2283 David Blair, Thomas Clark, Timmins Nevill, William Beard, 
MACLEAN 2284 ‘to accept our united thanks and best wishes, that your society may go on to accumulate a mass of true patriots, whose principles may not be subverted by interest, or conquered by fear. his society offers with gratitude their thanks and commendations to Horne Tooke, esq. for the present accompanying your letter, but more particularly for his zeal in the cause of freedom, which cannot be promoted but by the free use of the press, which we trust will never be restrained from Britons. Another letter accompanies this, containing a few particulars, which we doubt not you will peTuse with pleasure. Will write you further on that subject shortly
MACLEAN 2286 (No Signature.] “ SECe 
MACLEAN 2287 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitu‘tional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor Tavern, Friday, 15th March, 1793, 
MACLEAN 2288 “ Present, “ Capt. Tooke Harwood in the chair. 
MACLEAN 2289 “ Mr. Balmanno, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Tooke, Mr. Martin, Mr. Vasackert , Count Zenobio, Mr. Sharp, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. Bonney, Mr.'Symends, Rev. Mr. Joyee, Mr. Hokrok, Mr. Swainson, Mr. Banks, lord Sempill, Mr. Wills, Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Bailey, Mr. Frost, Mr. G. Williams, 
MACLEAN 2290 “ Read a Letter from the Constitutional Society, at Sheffield, inclosing their resolutions of the 13th of February last. 
MACLEAN 2291 “ Resolved, That the secretary be instructed to return the thanks of this society to the Society for Constitutional Information, at Sheffield, for their communication, and to acquaint them, that this society perfectl agree with them in their sentiments, wi! respect to the calamities of war in general ; “and that they concur with them in thinking, that the thanks of the community at large are due to all those who have exerted themselves to prevent the present war. Ordered, That the treasurer repay to Mr. Frost sixty livres, paid by him at Paris, for the translation of two addresses to the National Cunvention of France. 
MACLEAN 2292 “ Resolved, That the thanks of this society be given to Joel Barlow and John Frost, for their conduct in the presentation of the address of this socjety to the National Convention of France ; and that Mr. Frost be assured, that our regard for him is not lessened, but increased by the prosecutions and persecutions which his faithful and due discharge of that commission may bring upon him. 
MACLEAN 2293 “ Ordered, That this resolution be published in the newspapers. : 
MACLEAN 2294 “ At a meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor-tavern, Strand, Friday, 22d of March, 
MACLEAN 2295 1793, “ Present, 
MACLEAN 2296 “ Mr. Symonds in the chair, 
MACLEAN 2297 “ Mr. Frost, Mr. Hull, Count Zenobio, Mr. Tooke, Mr. Wills, Lord Sempill, Mr. Bonney, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Satchell, Mr. John Martin, Mr. Ausell, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Balmanno, Capt. T. Harwood, Mr. Parkinson, Mr. J. Williams,,Dr. Kentish, Mr. Margarot, Mr. Hardy. 
MACLEAN 2298 “ Read a letter from the United Political 
MACLEAN 2299 Societies of Norwich. 
MACLEAN 2300 I found this paper in Mr. Adams’s house. 
MACLEAN 2301 “ The United Political Societies of Norwich. 
MACLEAN 2302 March 5th, 1793. 
MACLEAN 2303 “ gentlemen, It is with peculiar satisfaction, we are favoured with your correspondence (not merely because you are so, although you are better fitted to diffuse knowledge) but be, cause you areembarked in the same magnanimous cause, which demands with alacnity the attention of every individual; and itis with the utmost regret we see so many, either from ignorance, or something worse, who are inimical to their own interest ; for nothing contributes so much to support the oppressor, as the ignorance of the oppressed ; for which purpose the flood-gates have been opened Panually, till, by degrees, the streams of corruption have nearly overflowed the land: such as bounty acts, borrowing, qualification, and septennial acts, besides standing armies, excise and ittin laws, with various others too painful for reflection, without credit to the framers thereof, and without advantage to society. We do not presume to recapitulate these abuses for Pipe information, but being too experimentally acquainted with them, we wish to find out a method of redress. At present we see a great propriety in universal suffrage, and annual elections, but we beg you will be obliging enough to inform us of what ou have collected of the sense of the people yy your correspondents. We have to inform you, that our worthy Corresponding Societies of London, have recently submitted three propositions for our investigation. First, whether -a petition to parliament, or an address to the king, or aconvention, : 
MACLEAN 2304 “Permit us briefly to state our views for our revisal ; and with respect to the first, we hold we are a conquered people. Wehave tamely submitted to the galling yoke, and resistance in the present circumstances is vain. We cannot act the man, and as necessity has no law, we think ourselves under that degrading necessity to state our grievances to the House of Commons, with a request for redress, and should they refuse to grant our reasonable petition, we have still got (no thanks to them) a formidable engine, that will convey the insylt to the remotest parts of the kingdom. As to the propriety of the second, we wish to submit to your superior judgment, and should esteem it a favour to be informed of the result; forat present we are dubious of its good consequences, Lastly, a convention, and ol ! that the period were arrived !—but in the present state of affairs, alas! it’s impracticable: yet this is the object we pursue, and esteem any other means only in subordination to, and as having a tendency to accomplish that desirable end. 
MACLEAN 2305 “ We wish to be in unison with our brethren and fellow-labourers, and should be glad of any information as soon as it is convenient: and we beg your advice whether it is’ necessary, as soon as possible, to collect signatures te a petition for a: real representation of the qfer and by whom to present it, whether Coke, Mr. Burch, or any of the Friends of the People; and whether it is attended with any expense. Our. members are both inimical to the business. 
MACLEAN 2306 “ We can give you no accurate statement of the representation in our neighbourhood, only observe, that it is equally farcical here as elsewhere. To conclude, with united for all favours received, wishing you and success, and may heaven avert We subscribe ourselves, gentlemen—Your very obliged humble servants, 
MACLEAN 2307 (Signed) ‘J. Broucuton. 
MACLEAN 2308 “Note. Please to direct to J. Broughton, St. Mary’s-church, Mr. Blake being no longer our secretary. 
MACLEAN 2309 “We have between thirty and forty separate societies in Norwich, besides many in the country villages. 
MACLEAN 2310 “Mr. D. Adams, No. 4, Tooke’scourt, Chancery-lane, London. 
MACLEAN 2311 “ Ata meeting of the Society for Constitutional Information, held at the Crown and Anchor-tavern, Strand, Friday, 29th March, 1793, 
MACLEAN 2312 “ Present, 
MACLEAN 2313 “ Capt. Tooke Harwood in the chair. “ Mr. Symonds, Mr. Jennings, Mr. Hull, Mr. Marun, Lord Sempill, Mr. Bryant, Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Frost, Rev. Mr. Joyce, Mr. Gay, Mr. J. Williams, Mr. G. Williams, Mr. Holcroft, Mr. Banks, 
MACLEAN 2314 “ Resolved, That the consideration of the letter from the United Political Societies of Norwich, be deferred till next meeting. 
MACLEAN 2336 I found this paper at Mr. Adams's. 
MACLEAN 2337 “ Sir; We have to acknowledge, with great satisfaction, the letter which you favoured us with, dated the 5th instant, relative to the most desirable of all other objects, the reform of our parliamentary representation. The honour you do us in supposing that we arc better fitted than yourselves for the promotion of political knowledge, we must disclaim ; because we observe, with the greatest pleasure, that our country correspondents ve too much zeal and information to want success in their public endeavours, whether at Notwich, at Sheffield, at Manthester, or elsewhere throughout the nation. In our sincerity for the good of our country, we trust that we are all equal; and as such we doubt not of our ultimate success. 
MACLEAN 2338 “ Weseewith sorrow the existence of those evils, which you so justly represent as the streams of corruption overflowing this once free and prosperous country. e see with surprise and abhorrence, that men are to be found both able and willing to support those corruptions. It is however no small consolation to find, that others are not wanting in every part of the nation of an opposite chaacter, who are ready to remedy, by all laudable and honourable means, the defect in our representation, the usurped extension of the duration of parliaments, and other grievances such as you notice in your letter. 
MACLEAN 2339 That the constitution of England has no more of that character it once possessed ; that the supposed democracy of the country has become a matter of property and privilege ; and that we have therefore no longer that mixt government which our adversaries are praising, when they know it is no longer in our possession, are facts notorious and indisputable. Where then are we to look for the remedy? To that parliament of which we complain 
MACLEAN 2341 «It is the end of each of these propositions that we ought to look to; and as success in good cause must be the effect of persev and the rising reason of the time, let us determine with coolness, but let us persevere with decision. As to a Convention, we regard it as a plan the most desirable and most practicable, so soon as the great body of the people shall be courageous and virtuous enough to join us in the attempt. Hitherto we have no reason to believe that the moment is arrived for that purpose. As to any petition to the crown, we believe it hopeless in its consequences. With respect to the last of Fd Proposals, we are ata loss to advise. If the. event is looked to in the vote which may be obtained from that body to whom the petition is to be addressed, which of us can look to it without the prospect of an absolute negative ? In this point of view, therefore, it cannot require a moment's consideration. But if we regard the policy of such a petition, it may, in our apprehension, be well worth considering as a warning voice to our present legislators, and as a signal for imitation to the majority of the people. Should such a plan be vigorously and generally pursued, it would hold out a certainty to our fellow-countrymen, that we are not a handful of individuals unworthy of attention or consideration, who desire the restoration of the ancient liberties of England ; but, on the contrary, it might bring into light that host of well-meaning men, who in the different towns and counties of this realm are silently but seriously anxious for reformation in the government. We exhort you with anxiety to pursue your laudable endeavours for the common good, and never to despair of the public cause. “We are, &c. 
MACLEAN 2564 I found this printed pamphlet at Mr. Adams’s. 
MACLEAN 7422  found this paper at Mr. Adams’s house. 
MACLEAN 7423 “Gentlemen, The Society for Constitutional Information have been favoured with two letters bearing the signature of the editors ofthe Patriot. The first of these letters, dated June 11th, related particulars concerning the publication called the Patriot, accompanied by some of the first numbers. It required our opinion, and our public approbation of the work, with hints for its continuance. It likewise narrated several interesting particulars, relative to the friends and foes of liberty, their various habits and propensities, and added conjectures on the means by which those habits and propensities might be turned to theadvantage of freedom. 
MACLEAN 7424 “ The second letter, dated October 15, consisted of a complaint of neglect on the part of our society, a farther statement of facts simiJar to those contained in the first letter, and an account including letters of the proceed- ; ings of asocicty at Stockport. 
MACLEAN 7425 All these letters have been read by the society for Constitutional Information; and the manly spirit in which they were conceived, their honest zeal, and the love of free-dom by which their authors were animated, were highly grateful to chat society. It was no fecling of superiority, no intentional disreSpect, and assuredly no wilful mark of insult, at occasioned the silence of the society. We were required to perform that of which we were incapable ; to pass judgment on a publication which none of us had read, and to correspond with persons in the dark, who had not thought fit (for reasons which they no doubt held to be prudent) to trust us with their names, What could be due? We admired both the talents and the intention of our correspondents (or correspondent); but we are simple, honest men, wanting the priestly gift of intuition, and could not predicate good or ill of that, of which, not having’ read, we could have no knowledge. Several weeks passed away, and still the members could give no opinion of the Patriot ; for men. must individually act by their own judgments ; itis the very essence of freedom that they should be lett thus to act; they will read the book first that happens most to attract their’ notice ; and you, gentlemen, are too liberal, too just and too manly, to require them to approve what they had not read, however deserving they might suspect it to be of appro-bation. Of the purport, however, of your un-, dertaking, the ardour with which it is conceived, and the perseverance with which it, appears to be pursued, the socicty finds no hesitation in both approving and applauding most zealously. F “ You candidly ask the society for hints ; but the detail of your letters convinces us you are yourselves proficients. Honest men, however, advise, asked or not asked, whenever they imagine that by advising they can do: good. Perhaps, gentlemen, you may have read and one a publication, by the late father of his country, Dr. Franklin, called poor Robin's almanack ; in which, with characteristic simplicity of language, he descended to the feelings, wants and understandings of the lower order, and, in proverbial, jocular' wisdom, conveyed truths to them of the highest: importance, truths that prepared them for the subline efforts to which they were soun to be‘ roused; truths that led them onward to the avenuesof treedom, while their sight was too feeble to endure the splendor of the temple itself. A certain number of such proverbial axioms, which men of your genius wouldeasily invent, arranged at the beginning or end of each of your publications, and appeal- ing to the real wants, grievances, and affeotions of the people, of which you appear to be perfectly masters, could not fail of producing an effect. j “ We rejoice with you in the increase of the membersand societies of freedom : our bosoms glow with the same sentiments. Weare brothers in aflection, with you, with the freemen of Sheffield, of Stockport, and of the whole woild
