MCEWAN 8152 No. 
MCEWAN 8154 I know nothing about it. 
MCEWAN 8156 I was, of a society at the Water of Leith. 
MCEWAN 8158 A sub-committee, which I looked upon to be for the purpose of looking into the finances of Mr. Skirving, for this reason, that Skirving had wrote a Teter that there was twenty pounds owing to him. 
MCEWAN 8160 A parliamentary reform. 
MCEWAN 8163 Yes. 
MCEWAN 8165 I could not say; I might be half a dozen nights there. 
MCEWAN 8167 Yes. 
MCEWAN 8169 Never. 
MCEWAN 8172 No. 
MCEWAN 8174 No. 
MCEWAN 8176 No. 
MCEWAN 8179 As far as I could understand it, they met to obtain a parliamentary reform. 
MCEWAN 8182 I do not oe that. ere they to have petitioned that ni or how was that todone avThat Sey night when the convention was dispersed, it was to have come under consideration, either to petition the House of Commons, or the 
MCEWAN 8185 IHt was given the night before, as far as I heard. 
MCEWAN 8187 Yes. 
MCEWAN 8189  —I do not recollect that. 
MCEWAN 8191 No. 
MCEWAN 8193 No, F never put pen to paper upon the subject; F never correspounded with any man upon the subject. 
MCEWAN 8195 I could not say. 
MCEWAN 8197 Near two hundred I dare say. 
MCEWAN 8199 I never saw one. 
MCEWAN 8201 I never heard it. 
MCEWAN 8203 I never heard it in the convention. 
MCEWAN 8205 I never heard of arms in one place or another, til Watt asked me to go that day to Mr. Orrock’s. 
MCEWAN 8207 I' do not know. 
MCEWAN 8209 That I do not know any thing about. 
MCEWAN 8211 Yes, Mr. Bonthron and me rejected it. 
MCEWAN 8214 No. 
MCEWAN 8216 The reform most of them spoke of was universal suffrage and annual parliaments ; some were of that way of thinking, some for triennial iorige pate as settled at the Revolution. 
MCEWAN 8218 The people at large to have thc choice of their representatives. 
MCEWAN 8220 I never heard that mentioned. 8 
MCEWAN 8222 No, to petition the House of Commons, or the King. 
MCEWAN 8224 I can give no information as to that. Upon your oath, was not the Committee of Union after the dispersion of the British Convention, for the purpose of establishing a new convention, a convention of emergency ?—Upon my oath I never heard at all,—I never was in it but that night when the letter was read from Skirving. I was never in it but that night I mention. 
MCEWAN 8226 The first night I was in that committee, which is styled a Committee of Union, that letter was read from Skirving: the next night again I was appointed a member of this sub-committee, and what was going on in that Committee of Union I know not. 
MCEWAN 8228 All the transactions I ever saw was in that light. 
MCEWAN 8230 No, I was never in but that night that I was appointed a member of the sub-committee, 
MCEWAN 8232 No. 
MCEWAN 8234 I do not remember any such thing. 
MCEWAN 8236 No, I do not know that. 
MCEWAN 8238 No, I did not know that neither. 
MCEWAN 8240 No. 
MCEWAN 8242 I have heard of that, but only know of that by hearsay. 
MCEWAN 8244 I heard it mentioned that they were to have another convention, and that the sociclty were to get information respecting that other meeting. 
MCEWAN 8246 That they were to get information. 
MCEWAN 8248 I do not know. mM : 
MCEWAN 8250 No. 
MCEWAN 8252 That was the purpose of the society I belonged to. And that was to be, the purpose of the new convention ?—I could not say as to that at all. This pestleinen has got you to say, thag you would not have remained for a moment in the convention, if you had had the idea of any force being employed; upon your oath, how came you to attend a second meeting of the sub-committee, with Watt, who had proposed a plan for drawing down the soldiers from the castle, in order to have them surrounded by the Friends of the People, and for carrying that first plan into execution —How came you to meet him at a second meeting, when he was enlarging upon that plan ?—I did not know that he would repeat it again. Did-you go and inform aay magistrate of such a plot ?—No, but I informed the sheriff, Did you inform the sheriff of the first plan, before Watt communicated the second ?—No. 
MCEWAN 8254 The Court oughtto take care in the examination of a witness, that he is not called upon to accuse himself—He is upon very perilous pround. 1 am not quite sure that you would be permitted to make use of a man’s evidence against himself so obtained, or I would not have permitted it to have gone omso long. 
MCEWAN 8258 My Lord, I am not ci calibed with these things, and I hope your lordship will protect me. 
MCEWAN 8260 Yes, I searched his house upon the 15th of May last. 
MCEWAN 8262  Yes. 
MCEWAN 8268 A great deal of that has fallen upon me : your lordships must be sensible it is impossible I could at the time of crossexamining a witness, take any particular note of what he has said—When the evidence for the crown was near closing, as I thought, I humbly requested of your Torlships for the indulgence of an hour or two to look over the papers; your lordships were pleased to grant my request, which I considered as a personal civility to myself—I was prevented by extreme sickness, from availing myself of those two hours, for I was extremely ill, and nothing less than a case of this magnitude could have brought me into this court.—Since that time I bave nothad natural rest, for I have not got home till between two and three o'clock in the morning, and have been here again at nine; so that I can say, with a safe conscience, I have not had an opportunity of casting m eye upon any part of the evidence, though trust I have something of the general result of itin my mind.—TI should hope, under these circumstances, the prisoner may be indulged with some opportunity, for my friend Mr. Gibbs and myself, to arrange our papers, and consider them together as counsel for the prisoner, before we are called upon to make our defence : and it is necessary to do this, not for my address to the jury only, but it is necessary when J address the jury, that I present them the prisoner's case, that depends much upon the arrangement of the evidence ; —and I feel nyself in no condition todo this, either ina manner that is respectful, or fit for the Court, or for the safety of the prisoner.—I do not wish to impose any particular time, but merely to leave it to the indulgence and jus tice of the Court, perfectly sure when I leave it there, I leave it in a safe place. 
MCEWAN 8270 At the same time, it is certainly notorious that the great bulk of that evidence has been in print a great while, and I cannot believe that it has not been very well considered as far as it has been in print. I am sure that must be un derstood. 
MCEWAN 8272 I have seen such a specimen of their behaviour, that I cannot entertain 2 doubt of that; but that we could give you an absolute suspension of the business in the situation that we are in, upon the terms of keeping the jury in the situation in which they must be kept, is athing that it is perfectly impossible for us to think of. Now this occurs to me; my brothers will consider of it; I merely throw it out for their consideration.—You are men of honour, you will tell us whether you really do mean to call witnesses, or to take the case upon the ground upon which it is already made : If you mean tocall witnesses, you may call them to-morrow ; 
MCEWAN 8274 If you do not mean to call witnesses, but mean to leave the case with the observations which arise upon the evidence that is before the Court, we will go as far as we can; but if witnesses are to be called, and you desire not to address the jury immediately, you must immediately begin to examine your witnesses, as soon as they have closed en the part of the crown; and fill up the time that will intervene between that time and the time when you will be ready to go on with your address to the jury.—In that way I think we shall put the jury under no unnecessary hardships, because whether they hear the witnesses before or after the specch, is a matter of no importance to them. 
MCEWAN 8283 I do not shrink from the business ; I am extremely willing to suffer any thing, but I assureyoyr lordship that my health is extremely suffering by it. 
MCEWAN 8306 [showing it tb the witness]—In Mr. Thelwall’s house. When you apprehended him?—After he was taken away; I remained to bring away the papers. Upon what day?—On the night of the 13th of May, or the morning of the 14th. It was the morning of the 14th. 
