MR_EVANS 8356 TI was fortherly a grocer. 
MR_EVANS 8358 Yes. 
MR_EVANS 8360 Nearly. 
MR_EVANS 8362 We had a difference last of all; Mr. Martin wished to have the room I was in to himself. 
MR_EVANS 8364 N o; we had no quarrel, only a dispute. 
MR_EVANS 8366 Never. 
MR_EVANS 8368 There was. 
MR_EVANS 8371 Yes. 
MR_EVANS 8373  Yes; I went backwards and forwards to him. ve you know Mr. Martin?—Yes; very well. 
MR_EVANS 8375 Yes; I have seen them both. 
MR_EVANS 8377 In the King’s-bench. - an 
MR_EVANS 8379 In Mr. Evans’s room, in Mr. Martin’s possession. 
MR_EVANS 8381 It was in that month, 
MR_EVANS 8383 I remember his reading this papers particularly mentioning that it is not lawful to take up arms against the king; he read the through, but there is nothing more I recollect, as I was passing to and fro, but those words, 
MR_EVANS 8385  Nothing else; there were three gentlemen present, to whom he read it. 
MR_EVANS 8387 Yes; I heard him mention that he had drawn the resolutions up for Chalk-farm. 
MR_EVANS 8389 He said if they kept by his resolutions, they were very warm ones, for he had put plenty of Cayenne into them, and that there wi be very warm work. 
MR_EVANS 8391 Perfectly well; Mr. Martin’s clerk. 
MR_EVANS 8393 I heard none till he brought the resolutions printed : Pearce said he had had many of them, but that he had distributed them among the workmen of a Coach-maker in Long- Acre, but that Mr. Hardy had a great many more printed, and that he could get more. 
MR_EVANS 8577 Yes. 
MR_EVANS 8579 I do not. I think I should know if I heard it mentioned, because I have heard it mentioned several times. 
MR_EVANS 8581 I believe it was near St. James's; he used to be with Martin every day. 
MR_EVANS 8584 I have to thank you also, gentlemen, for the very condescending and obliging manner in which you so readily consented to this accommodation : the Court could only speak for itself, referring me to you, whose rest and comforts had been so long interrupted. I shall always remember your kindness. 
MR_EVANS 8589 I anxiously wish with him that you shall bear in memory the anarchy which is desolating France.— Before I sit down, I may perhaps, in my turn, have occasion to reflect’ a little upon its probable causes; but waiting a season for such reflections, let us first consider what the evil is which has been so feelingly lamented, as having fallen on that unhappy country.—It is, that under the dominion of a barbarous state necessity, every protection of law is abrogated and destroyed; it is, that no man can say, under such a system of alarm and terror, that his life, his liberty, his reputation, or any one human blessing, is secure to him fora moment: it is, that, if accused of federalism, or moderatism, or incivism, or of whatever else the change fashions and factions of the day shall have lifted up into high treason against the State, he must see his friends, his family, and the light of heaven, no more : the accusation and the sentence being the same: following one another as the thunder pursues the flash. Such has been the state of England,—such is the state of France: and how then, since they are introduced to you for application, ought they in reason and sobriety to. be applied? If this prosecution has been commenced (as is asserted) to avert from Great Britain the calamities incident to civil confusion, leading in its issues to the deplorable condition of France ; I call upon you, gentlemen, to avert such calamity from fall ing upon my client, and through his side upon yourselves and upon our country.—Let not him suffer under vague expositions of tyrannical laws, more tyrannically executed.—Let not him be hurried away to pre-doomed-execution, from an honest enthusiasm for the public safety.—I ask for hima trial by this applauded constitution of our country : I call upon you to administer the law to him, according to our own wholesome institutions, by its strict and rigid letter. However you may eventually disapprove of any part of his conduct, or viewing it through a false medium, may think it even wicked, I claim for him, as a subject of England, that the law shall decide upon its criminal denomination : I protest, in his name, against all appeals to speculations concerning consequences, when the law commands us to look only to vtentions.—If the state be threatened with evils, let parliament administer a prospective remedy, but let the prisoner hold his life uNDER THE Law. Gentlemen, I ask this solemnly of the Court, whose Justice I am persuaded will afford it to me; I ask it more emphatically of you, the jury, who are called upon your oaths to make a true deliverance of your countryman, from this Pele : but lastly, and chiefly, I implore it of aim in whose hands are all the issues of life; whose humane and merciful eye expands itself over all the transactions of mankind; at whose command nations rise, and fall, and are regenerated ; without whom nota sparrow falleth to the ground ; —I implore it of God himself, that He will fill your minds with the spirit of, justice and of truth ; so that you may be able to find your way through the labyrinth of matter laid before you, a labyrinth in which no man’s life was ever before involved, in the annals of British trial, nor indeed in the whole history of human justice or injustice. 
MR_EVANS 8594 The subversion of the King’s political government, and all, conspiracies to subvert it, are crimes of po magnitude and enormity, which the law is open tq punish; bu¢ neither of them ore the crimes before you.—The prisoner is xor charged with a conspiracy against the King’s POLITICAL GOVERNMENT, but against his sa TURAL L1FB, He is not. accused of having merely taken sepa te depose him from hisauthority, but with having done so with theinter tion te bring him to death.—It is the act with the specific intention, and not the act alone, which constitutes a charge.—The act ‘a cqnspiring to depose the King, indeed evidence, according to cirousastaces, of an intention to destroy his natural existence, but never, as a proposition of aw, can const tute the intention itself—Where an act done in pursuance of an intention, surely the intention must first-exist; a man cannot dos thing in fulfilment of an intention, unless his mind. first conceives that intention.—Th ing an act, or the pursuit of a system of conduct, which leads in probable consequences to the death of the King, may legally (if 0 such be. hefore you) affect the consideration of the traitorous perpoes raid questions quences unconnected even with intention or consciousness, shall be synonymous in law with the traitorous mind; although the traitorous mind alone is arraigned, as constituting the crime. 
MR_EVANS 8599 I can do this with the greater security, because my respectable and learned friend, the Attorney General, has not cited cases which have been the disgrace of this country in former times, nor asked you to sanction by your judgment those bloody murders, which are recorded by them as acts of English justice; but, as might be expected of an honourable man, his expositions of the law (though I think them frequently erroneous) are drawn from the same sources, to which I look up for doctrines so very different. I find, indeed, throughout the whole range of authorities (mean those which the attorney general has properly considered as deserving that name and character) very little contradiction; for, as far as I can discover, much more entanglement has arisen from now and then a tripping in the expression, than from any difference of sentiment amongst eminent and virtuous judges, who have either examined, or sat in judgment upon this momentous subject. 
MR_EVANS 8601 As a suppesed attack upon the king’s civil authority has been transmuted, by construction, into a murderous conspiracy against his natural person ; in the same manner, and by the same arguments, a conspiracy to overturn that civil authority, by direct force, has again been assimilated, by farther construction, to a design to undermine monarchy by changes wrought through public opinion, enlarging gradually into untversal will; so that Ican adinit no false proposition, however wide I may think it of rational application.—For as there is a conSTRUCTIVE COMPaSsING, so also there is a CONSTRUCTIVE DEPosING ; and I cannot, therefore, possibly know what either of them is separately, nor how the one may be argued to involve the other.—There are, besides, many risoners, whose cases are behind, and whose Tees may be involved in your present deliberation ; their names have been already stigmatized, and their conduct arraigned in the evidence you have heard, as a part of’ the conirucy.—It is these considerations which rive me into so large a field of argument, because, by sufficiently ascertaining the law in the outset, they who are yet looking up to it Pr protection, may not be brought into eril. a gentlemen, I now proceed to establish, that a compassing of the death of the king, within the twenty-fifth of Edward the third, which is the charge against the prisoner, consists in a traitorous intention against his NATURAL Lire; and that nothing short of your firm belief of that detestable intention, from overt acts which you find him to have committed, can justify his conviction. That I may keep my word with you in building my argument upon nothing of my own, I hope my friend Mr. Gibbs will have the goodness to call me back, if he finds me wanderin; from my engagement; that I ma: ineded step by step upon the most venerable and acknowledged authorities of the law. 
MR_EVANS 8603 Lord Hale says, in his Pleas of the Crown, vol. i. page 82, that “ at common law there was a great lutitude sed in raising offences to the crime and punishment of treason, by way of interpretation and arbitrary construction, which brought in great uncertainty and confusion. Thus accroaching, i, . ENCROACHING ON ROYAL POWER was an usual charge of treason anciently, though a very uncertain charge; so that no man could tell what it was, or what defence to make to it. Lord Hale then goes on to state various instances of vexation and cruelty, and concludes with this striking observation : “ by these and the like instances that might be given, it appears how ARBITRARY AND UNCERTAIN the law of treason wus before the statute of 25th of Edward the IIIrd, whereby it came to pass that almost every offence that was, or seemed to be, a breach of the faith and allegiance due to the king, was 
MR_EVANS 8605 Now this statute, which bs obtained the: panegyric of these great mer, whom the Chief Justice in his Charge looked up to for light and fur example, and wha the Attorney General takes also for his guide, would very little have deserved the hig) eulogium bestowed upon it, if, though avovedly passed to destroy uncertainty in crimim! justice, and to beat down the arbitrary constructions of Judges, lamented by Hale, asdifiguring and dishonouring the law, 4t had, vertheless, been so worded as to give birth new constructions and uncertainties, inste:! of destroying the old ones.—It would bul have entitled itself to the denomination of s blessed statute, if it had not, in its enacting letter, which professed to remove doubts, ate to ascertain the law, made use of expressions the best known and understood; and it wll be found accordingly, that it cautiously did It will be found, that, in selecting the expresion of coMPASSING THE DEATH, it employeda term of the most fixed and ne cation in the language of English law, which not only no judge or counsel, but which attorney or attorney’s clerk, could misunderstand; because in former ages, before the statute, compassing the death of any mar had been a felony, and what had amounted 0 such compassing, had been settled in a thousen instances. To establish this, and to show also, by no reasoning of mine, that the term “ compassing the death was intended by the statute, when applied to the King, as higi treason, to have the same signification asit had obtained in the law when applied to the subject as a felony, I shall refer to Mr. Justice Foster, and even to a passage cited by the Attorney General himself, which speaks unequal and unanswerably for itself, 3 to mock all ,commentary.—“ The ancieal writers, says Foster, “ in treating of felonums homicide, considered the felonious INTENTION manifested by plain facts, in the same light, point of guilt, as homicide itself. —The rule ras. VOLUNTAS REPUTATUR PRO Facto; and hile this rule prevailed, the nature of the offence 2 expressed by the term COMPASSING THE DEATH. This rule has been long laid aside as too rigorms in the case of common persons ; but in the cax of the Kinc, Queen, and Prince, the statute of treasons has, with great propricty, RETAINtD in its full extent and vigour ; and in describing the offence, has likewise RETAINED the ancient mode of expression, when a man doth compass imagine the death of our lord the king, ¢. and thereof be upon sufficient proof, procablemesl, attainted of open decd, by people of his condition: the words of the statute descriptive of the ofentt, must, THEREFORY, 6¢ strictly pursued in cvry indictment for this species of treason.—It MUST charge that the defendant did traitorously cot and imagine the king’s death ; and then go Seand charge the several acts made use of by the prisoner to effectuate his trattorous purpose; YOR THE COMPASSING THE KING’S DEATH ISTHE treason, and the overt acts are charged as the means made use of to effectuate the intentions and imaginations of the heart ; and therefore, in the case of the regicides, the indictment charged that they did traiturously compass and imagine the death of the king, and the cutting off the head wus laid as the overt act, and the person who was supposed to have given the mortal aroke was convicted on the same indictment. This concluding instance, though at first view it may appear ridiculous, is well selected as an illustration; because, though in that case there could be no possible doubt of the intention, since the act of a deliberate execution involves, in common sense, the intention to destroy life, yet still the anomaly of the offence, which exists wholly in the rNTENTION, and not in the overt act, required the preservation of the form of the indictment.—It is surely impossible to read this commentary of Foster, without seeing the true purpose of the statute: the common law had anciently considered, even in the case of a fellow-subject, the malignant intention to destroy, as equivalent to the act itself; but that noble spirit of humanity which pervades the whole system of our jurisprudence, had, before the time of king Edward the third, eat out and destroyed this rule, too rigorous in its general application; but, as Foster truly observes in the passage I have read—“ This rule, too rigorous inthe case of the subject, the statute of treasons RETAINED in the case of the king, and RETAINED ALSO THE VERY EXPRESSION used by the law when compassing the death of a subJect was felony. 
MR_EVANS 8610 I will read it to you again: “ all the words descriptive of the offence, viz. ‘ if a “man doth compass or imagine, and thereof be attainted of open deed, are plainly borrowed Jrom the common law, and therefore must bear the same construction they did at common law. Gentlemen, Mr. Justice Foster is by no means singular in this doctrine.—Lord Coke, the oracle of the law, and the best oracle one can consult, when standing for a prisoner charged with treason, as he was the highest prerogative lawyer that ever existed, maintains the same doctrine—even He, even Coke, the infamous prosecutor of Raleigh, whose character with posterity, as an attorney general, my worthy and honourable friend would disdain to hold, to be author of all his valuable works ; yet even this very lord Coke himself, holds precisely the same language with Foster.— For, in ie commentary on this statute, in his third Institute, p. 5, when he comes to the word, “ porn compass, he says, “ Let us see first what the compassing the death of a sub secT was before the making of this statute, when voluntas reputabatur pro facto.—Now what is the plain English of this?—The commentator says, I am going to instruct you, the student, who are to learn from me the law of England, what is a compassing of the death of the Kine; but that I cannot do, but by first carrying you to look into what was the compassing of the death of a sussect at the ancient common law ; because the statute having made a compassing, as applied to the Kino, the crime of high treason, which, at common law, was felony in the case of a suB-sect, it is impossible to-define the one, without looking back to the records which illustrate the orneR.—This is so directly the train of Lord Coke's reasoning, that in his own sin-gularly precise style of commentating, he immediately lays betore his reader a variety ofinstances from the ancient records and year-books, of compassing the susscct’s DLATH; and what are they ?—Not acts wholly collateral to attacks upon life, dogmatically laid ; down by the law trom speculations upon pro-bable or possible consequences; but assaults : WITH INTENT TO MURDER; conspiracies to waylay the person with the saME INTENTION; and other MuRpERoUs muchinations,—These were the only compassings before the statute, against the subject’s life; and the extension of the expression was never heard of in theJaw till introduced by the craft of political ; judges, when it became applicable to crimesagainst tue Srate.—Lere again I desire toappeal to the highest authorities for this source of constructive treasons; for although : the statute of Edward urd had expressly directed that nothing should be doclapel to be treason but cases within its enacting letter, yet lurd Hale says, in his Pleas of the Cruwn, page 83, that “ dings were so carried by PaRrTIFS aud FACTIONS, in the succeeding reign of Richard 2nd, thue this statute was but little observed, but as this or that party got the better. —So the crime of high treason was in a manner arbitrarily unposed und adjudged, to the disudpantace of the party that was to be judged ; which, by vartous vicissitudes and revolutions, mischicfed all parties first and lust, and left a reat unsetiledness and unquictness in the minds Of the people, and was one of the occasions vf the unhappiness of that King. 
MR_EVANS 8614 As far asit re-cnacted the treason of compassing the King’s death, and levying war, it only re-cuacted the statute of Edward Srd, but it went beyond it by the loose construction of compassing to depose the King, and raising the people, and riding to make war, or acompassing to depose him, Terms NEW TO THE COMMON Law. The actual levying of force, to imprison or depose the King, was already and properly high treason, within the second branch of the statute; but this statute of Richard 2nd enlarged only the crime of compussing, making it extend to acompassing to imprison or depose, which are the great objects of an actual levying of war, and mak-. 
MR_EVANS 8616 It seems, therefore most astonishing, that any judge could be supposed to have decided, as an abstract rule of daw, that a compassing to imprison or depose the king was high treason, sunstasTIVELY, WITHOUT PREVIOUS COMPASSING OP HIS DEATH: since it was made so by this statute, 21st of Richard 2nd, and reprobated, stigmatized, and repealed by the statute 1st of Henry 4th, chap. 10. “ And so little effect, says Mr. Justice Blackstone, “ have over-violent laws to prevent any crime, that within two years after this new luw of treason respecting imprisonment and deposing, this very prince wes both deposed and murdered. 
MR_EVANS 8619 Amidst the convulsions, arising from the maddest ambition and injustice, and whilst the state was alternately departing from its poise, on one side, and on the other, the great rights of mankind were still insensibly taking root and flourishing ; — though sometimes monarch threatened to lay them prostrate, thoug! aristocracy occasionally undermined them, and democracy, in her turn, rashly trampled on them, yet they have ever come safely round at last.—This awful and sublime contemplation should teach us to bear with one another when our opinions do not quite coincide; extracting final harmony from the inevitable differences which ever did, and ever must exist amongst men. 
MR_EVANS 8621 It was borne down by factions, and, in those days, there were no judges, as there are now, to hold firm the baJance of justice amidst the storms of state, men could not then, as the prisoner can today, look up for protection to magistrates independent of the crown, and awfully accountable in character to an enlightened world.— As fast as arbitrary constructions were abolished by one statute, unprincipled judges began to build them up again, till they were beat down by another: to recount their strange treasons would be tiresome and disgusting; but their system of construction, in the teeth of positive law, may be well illustrated by two lines from Pope. 
MR_EVANS 8631 For such a method admits of 1 limits, or bounds, but runs as far ard as wide as the wit and invention of accusers, and the detestation of persons accused, will carry men. 
MR_EVANS 8634 Many have carried what they knew to their ves, and the living have lived long enough to forget it—Indeed 1 pray God that such another proceeding may never exist in England; because I consider it as a dishonour to the constitution, and that it brings, by its example, insecurity into the administration of justice . Every man in civilized society has aright to hold his life, liberty, property and reputation, under plain laws that can be well understood, and is intitled to have some limited specific part of his conduct, compared and examined by their standard; but he ought not for seven years, no, nor for seven days, to stand as a criminal before the highest hunan tribunal until judgment is bewildered and confounded, to come at last, perhaps, to defend himself, broken down with fatigue, and dispirited with anxiety, which, indecd, is my own condition at this moment, who am only stating the case of another—What then must be the condition of the unfortunate person whom you are trying? 
MR_EVANS 8637 Editor of Erskine's Speeches, See the trial of Henry Lord Viscount Melville—a. p. 1806, post. 
MR_EVANS 8644 Whatever, therefore, is relevant or competent evidence to be received in support of the traitorous intention is a legal overt act, and what acts are competent to that purpose, is (as in all other cases matter of law for the judges; but whether, — 
MR_EVANS 8646  This doctrine is by no means new nor peculiar to high treason, but pervades the whole law, and may be well illustrated in a memorable case lately decided upon writ of error in the House of Lords, and which must be in the memory of all the jude now present, who took a part in its decision—There the question was, whether, upon the establishment of a number of facts by legal evidence, the defendant had knowledge of a fact, the knowing of which would leave him defenceless—To draw that question from the jury to the judges, I demurred to theevidence, saying, that though each part of itwas legally admitted, it was for the law, by the mouth of the judges, to pronounce whether this fact of knowledge could legally be inferred from it; but the Tords, with the assentof all the judges, decided, to my perfect satisfaction, that such a demurrer to the evidence was irregular and invalid ; that the province of the jury over the effect of evidence, ought not to be so transferred to the judges, and converted into matter of law; that what was relevant evidence to come before a jury, was the province of the Court,—but that the conclusion to be drawn from admissible evidence, was the unalienable province of the country. 
MR_EVANS 8648 The charge ofaconspiracy to depose the ‘king, is therefore laid before you to establish that intention ; its competency to be laid before you for that purpose, is not disputed; I am only contending with all reason and authority on my side, that it is to be submitted to your consciences and understandings, whether, even if you believed the overt act, you believe also that it proceeded from a traitorous machination against the life of the king.—I am only contending that these two beliets must coincide to establish a verdict of guilty.—I am not contending, that, under circumstances, a conspiracy to depose the kiug, and to annihilate his regal capacity, may not be strong and satisfactory evidence of the intention to destroy his LIFE; but only that in this, as in every other instance, it is for you to collect or not to collect this treason against the king’s life, according to the result of your sonscientious belief and judgment, from the acts of the prisoner laid before you; and that the establishment of the overt act, even if it were established, does nut establish the treason against the king’s life, By a consrevexce or Law: but on the contrary, the overt act, though punishable in another shape, as an independent crime, is 4 dead letter upon this record, unless you believe, exercising your exclusive jurisdiction over the facts laid before you that it was committed in accomplishment of the treason against THE NATURAL LIFE OF TaL Kine. 
MR_EVANS 8650 There, though tne overt act was so connected with, as to becren inseparable from the traitorous intention, yet they were not contounded, because of the effect of the precedent in dissimilar cases: and although the regicides came to be tried immediately on the restoration of the king. in the day-spring of his authority, and before high prerogative judges, and under circumstances when, in any country but Englsnd, their trial would have been a mockery, their execution have becn awarded withoot even the forms of trial; yet in England, thst sacred liberty, which has for ever adorned the constitution, refused to sacrifice to zeal or et thusiasm, cither the substance or the forms of justice, Hear what the chicf baron prNounced upon that occasion : These posons are to be proceeded with according to the laws of the land, and I shull speak wothing 0 you but what are THE worns of the law. Bi the statute of Edward 3rd, it is made high treason to compass and imagine the death the king ; in no case else, imagination or com passing, without an actual effect, is punishable K4 law. He then speaks of the sacred life o! the king, and speaking of the treason, 95! — The treason consists in the wicked imetr nation which is not apparent ; but when this poison swells out of the heart, and breaks forth into action, in that case tt is high tres. THEN WHAT IS AN OVERT ACT OF AN 1MAGIS‘TION, OR COMPASSING OF THE K1No’s DBATHTRULY, IT IS ANY THING WHICH SHOWS WAIT THE IMAGINATION OF THE HEART I5. 
MR_EVANS 8652 Can there any Particular acts which can entitle a Judge or unsel to pronounce as a matter of law, what another man intends? or that what man intends is not a matter of fact? Is there any man that will meet the matter fairly, and advance and support that naked proposition ? At all events, it is certainly not a proposition to be dealt with publicly ; because the man whose mind is capable even of conceiving it, should be treasured up in a museum, and exhibited there as a curiosity, fur money. 
MR_EVANS 8654 Alas! gentlemen, what doI say? us has no family to return to; the affectionate partner of his life has already fallen a victim to the surprise and horror which atteuded the scene now transacting—But let that melancholy reflexion pass—it should not, perhaps, have been introduced—it certainly ought to have no effect upon you who are to judge upon, your oaths.—I do not stand here to desire you to commit perjury from compassion; but at the same time my earnestness may. be forgiven, since it proceeds from a weakness common to us all. I clain:no merit with the Prisoner for my zeal; it proceeds from a selfish principle inherent in the human heart—I am Counsel, gentlemen, for myself. In ev word I utter, I feel-that I am pleading for the safety of my own life, for the lives of my children atter me, for the happiness of my country, and for the universal condition of civil society throughoyt the world. 
MR_EVANS 8656 “ If men conspire the death of the king, that is the first thing, viz. the intention, “ and thereupon, that is, in pursuance of that wicked intention “ provide weapons, or send letters for the execution thereof, i. e. for the execution of that destruction of the Ki which they have meditated, “ this is anovert act within the statute. Surely the meaning of all this is self evident.—If the intention be against the king’s life, though theconspiracy does not immediately and direc! int to his death, yet still the overt act will te sufhcient if it be something which has so direct a tendency to that end, as to be competent rational evidence of the intention to obtain it. But the instances given by Lord Hale himself furnish the best illustration—‘ If mes. conspire to imprison the King by Force anp A STRONG HAND, until he has yielded to certain demands, and FOR THAT PURPOSE GATHER COMPANY OR WRITE LETTERS, that ts an overt act TO PROVE the compassing the King’s death, as it was held in lord Cobham’s case by oll the Judges. In this sentence lord Hale does not depart from that precision which sa eminently distinguishes all his writings; he does not say that if men conspire to imprison the king until he yields to certain demands, and for that purpose to do so and so, This is high Treason—no, nor even an overt act of high treason, though he might in legal correctly have said so; but to prevent possibility of coufounding the treason with matter which may be legally charged as relevant to the proof of it, he follows lord Coke’s expression in the third Institute, and says, This is an overt act to prove the compassing. of the king’s death :and as if by this mode expression he had not done enough to the ideas asunder, and from ab it for the rights aud liberties of the subject, he immediately adds, “ But then there must be an overt act 10 PROVE that conspiracy; and then that overt act to PROVE such design, is an overt act To PRovE the compassing of the death of the king. The language of this sentence labours in the ear from the excessive caution of the writer; afraid that his reader should jump ‘oo fast to his conclusion upona subject of such awful moment, he pulls him back, after he has read that a conspiracy to imprison the ine is an overt act to prove the compassing of his death, and says to him, but recollect that there must be an overt act to Prove, in the first Place, that conspiracy to imprison the king, and even then that intention to imprison him so manifested by the overt act, is but in its turn an overt act to prove the compassing or intentiun to destroy the king.—Nor does the great and benevolent Hale rest even here, but after this almost tedious perspicuity, he begins the next sentence with this fresh caution and limitation, “ But then this must be intended of a conspiracy ForciBLY to detain end imprison the king. What then is a conspiracy lorcibly to imrprison the king ?—surely it can require no explanation: it can only be a direct machination to seize and detain his person by rebellious torce.—Will this expression be satisfied by a conspiracy to seize speculatively upon his authority by the publication of pumphlets, which, by the inculcation of republican principles, may in the eventual circulation of a course of years, perhaps in a course of centuries, in this king's time, or in the time of a remote successor, dehauch men’s minds from the English constitution, and, by the destructivn of monarchy, involve the life of the monarch?—Will any man say that this is what the law means by a conspiracy against the King’s government, supposing even that a conspiracy against his government were synonimous with a design upon his life? Can any case be produced where a person has been found guilty of high treason under this branch of the statute, where no war has been actually levied, unless where the conspiracy has been a forcible invasion of the king’s personal liberty or security?do not mean to say that conspiracy to levy war may not, in many instances, be laid as an overt act of compassing the king’s death, because the war may be medittely or immediately pointed distinctly to his destruction or captivity ; and as lord Hale truly says, “small is the distance between the prisons and graves of Princes.— But multiply the instances as you will, still the principle presents itself. The truth of this very maxim, built upon experience, renders an overt act of this description rational and competent evidence to be left to a jury of a design against the king’s life; but it does not, therefore, change the nature of the crime, nor warrant any court to declare the overt act to be legally and conclusively indicative of the traitorous intention; because, if this be once admitted to be law, and-the jury are bound to find: the-treason upon their belicf of the existence of the overt act, the trial by the coyntry is atan end, and the judges are armed with an arbitrary uncontrollable dominion over the lives and liberties of the nation. Gentlemen, I will now proceed to show ou that the doctrines which I am insisting on ave been held by all the great judges of this country, in even the worst of times, and that they are, besides, not at all peculiar to the case of high treason, but pervade the whole system of the criminal law. Mr. Justice Foster, so justly celebrated for his writings, lays down the rule thus : It may be laid down as a general rule, that “ indictments founded UPON PENAL sTaTUTES, ESPECIALLY THE MOST PENAL, must pursue the statute so as to bring the party within tt. And this general rule is so expressly allowed to have place in high treason, that it is admitted on all hands, that an irdictment would be radically and incurably bad, unless it charged the compassing of the king’s death, as the leading and fundamental averment, and unless it formally charged the overt act to be committed in order to effectuate the traitorous purpose. Nobody ever denied this proposition ; and the present indictment is framed accordingly. Now it is needless to say that if the benignity of the general law requires this precision in the indictment, the proof must be correspondingly precise, for otherwise the subject would te rive no benefit from the strictness of the indictment; the strictness of whichcan have no other meaning in law or common sense, than the protection af the prisoner ; for if, though the indictment must directly charge a breach of the very Letter of the statute, the prisoner could, nevertheless, be convicted by evidence not amounting to a breach of the Lerren, then the strictness of the indictment would not only be no protection to the prisoner, but a direct violation of the first principles of justice criminal and civil, which call universally for the proof of all material averments in every legal proceeding. But Mr. Justice Foster expressly adverts to the necessary severity of proof, as well as of charge—for he says, that “although a case is brought within the reason of 2 penal statute, and within the mischief to be prevented, yet, if it does not come within the unequivocal etter, the benignity of the law interposeth. If the law then be thus severe in the interpretation of every penal proceeding, even down to an action for the itay of a hare or a partridge, are its constructions only to be enlarged and extended as to the statute of high treason, athough the single object of passing it was tu guard inst constructions? ; 
MR_EVANS 8658 I hope that when I state one part of his speech to be in diametrical opposition to another, he wyill not suppose that I attribute the inconsisfency to any defect, either in his understanding or his heart ; far from it—it arises, I ayn Convinced, from some of the authorities not being sufficiently understood. In the beginning of his speech he admits that the evidence must be satisfactory and convincing asto the intention; but in the latter part he seems, as it were, to take off the effect of that admission. I wish to give you the very words. I took them down at'the ime; and ifI do not state them correctly, f desire to be corrected. “I most dis tinctly disavow, said my honourable friend, “ every case of construgtion. I most distinctly disavow any like case of treason not within the letter of the statute. I most distinctly disavow cumulative treason. I most distinctly disavow enhancing guilt by parity of reason. The question umdubeedly is, whether the proof be full and satisfactory to your Teasons and consciences that the prisoner is ilty of the treason of compassing the king’s leath. gentlemen, J hope that this will always with equal honour be admitted. Now Tet us see how the rest of the learned gentle. man’s speech falls in with this—For he goes on to say, that it is by no means necessary that the distinct, specific intention should preexist the overt act. “If the overt act, says he, “be deliberately committed, it isa compassing. But how so, if the intention be adtitted to be the treason ? What benefit is obtained by the rigorous demand of the statute, that the compassing of the king’s death shall be charged by the indictment as the crime if a crime different, or short of it, can be subStituted for it in the proof: and how can the statute cf itichard and be said to be repealed, which made it Ligh treason to compass to depose the king, independently of intention upon his life, if the law shall declare, notwithstanding the repeal, that they are synonimous terms, and that the one conciustvery involves the other? Gentlemen, if we examine the most promipent cases, which have geome in judgment before judges of the most unquestionable authanity and after the constitution had become fixed, you will find every thing that I have been saying to you justitied and confirmed. The first great Stite rial, after the revolution, was the case of sir John breind, acongpirator in the assassination plot. Sir John Freind was indicted for compassing and imagining the death of king William; and the overt acts charged, and principally relied on, were, first, the sending Mr. Charnock into France to king James, to desire him to persuade the French king to send forces over to Great Britain, to levy war against, and the depose the King, and that Mr. Charnock was actually sent; and, secondly, the preparing men to be levied to form a corps to assist in the restoartion to the Pretender, and the expulsion of king William, of which sir John Freind was to:be colonel.—In this case, if the proofs were not to be wholly discredited, and the overt acts were c uently established, they went rationally to convince tbe mind of every man of the fre esisting intention tp destroy the king.—The conspiracy was not to do an act which, though it might lead eves. tually and speculatively to the xin death, might not be forescen or designed by thos who conspired together : the conspiracy was not directed to an event, probably leading to another, and a different one, and from th happening of which second, a third still diffe. rent might be engendered, which third might again lead in its consequences to a fourth slate of things, which might, in the revolution of events, bring on the death of the king, though never assed ar imagined : Freind’s conspiracy, en the contrary, for its direct and immediate object the restoration of the Pretender to the throne, by the junction of foreign and rebellious force. In my opinion (and I am not more disposed than others to push things beyond their mark in the adninistration of criminal justice), sir John Freind, if the evidence against him found credit with the jury, could have no possible defence; since the evidence went directly to prove the despatch of Charnock to France, under hi direction, to invite the French kin to bring ever the Pretender into England, to place him on the throne,—The intention, therefore, of sir John Freind to cut off king Willian, was a clear inference from the overt actia luestion; not an inference of daw for ue ourt, but of fact for the jury, under the guidance of plain common sense; because the Consequence of the Pretender's r: ng the throne must have been, the attainder o z William by act of parliament.—Some gentlemen seem to look as if they thought sot—but I should be glad to hear the positian contra dicted.—I repeat, that if the Pretender had been restored, as king of England, the legal consequence would have been, that king William would baye been a traitor and a usurper, and subject as sych to be tried at the Old Bailey, or wherever else the ki who fouk his place, thought fit to wig 4 bo Jjudgment.—From these premises, erefore, there could be go difficulty of inferring the intention; and, therefore, if ever a case ex! where, from the clearness of the inference, the province of the jury might have been overlooked, and the overt act confounded with the treason, it was in the instance of Freind; but so far was this from being the case, thet ou will find, on the contrary, every thing I lave been saying to you, since I beganaaddress you, summed up and confirmed by that most eminent istrate lord, justice Holt, who presided dipen that trial. He hegins thus : “ Gentlemen of the jury look ye, the ireuson that 1 mentioned im tht indictinent is conspiring, cumpassing, ond ime Bining the death of the king. To Prove TH CONAPIRACY AND DESIGN of she King’s DEATH, 
MR_EVANS 8660 For it is not till atterwards that he comes to answer the prisoner's objection in point of law, as the chief justice in terme puts it—“ there is another thing, said lord chief justice Holt, “ he did insist upon, AND THAT 18 MATTER OF Law. The statute 25th Edward III. was read, which is the great statute about treasons, and that does contain divers species of treason, and declares what shall be treason: one treason is the com‘passing and imagining the death of the king ; another is the levying war. Now says he (i. e. Freinp), “here is no war actually levied ; and a bare conspiracy to levy war, does not come within the law against treason. To pause here a little: Freind’s argument was this—whatever my iatentions might whatever my object of levying war might shave been—whatever might have been my design to levy it—however the destruction of athe king might have been effected by my conspiracy, if it had gone on—and however it might have been my intention that it should, —it is not treason within the 25th of Edward III.—To which Holt replied, a little incorrectly in language, but right in substance— “Now for that I must tell you, if there be only a conspiracy to levy war, it is Not treason ; i. e. it is not a substantive treason: it is not a treason in the abstract. “ But if the design and conspiracy be either to kill the king, or to depose him, or imprison him, or put any force or restraint upon him, i. e. personal restraint by force, “and the way of ehecting these purposes 1S BY LEVYING A waR; there the conspirucy and consultation, to leoy war for that purpose, is high treason, though no war be levied: for such consultation and conspiracy is AN OVERT aur PROVING the compassing the death of the ing. conspiracy to levy which, is an overt act to prove a design against the king’s life, though no war be actually levied? gentlemen, lord Holt himself illustrates this matter so clearly, that if I bad any thing at stake short of the honour and lite of the prisoner, I might sit down as soon as I had read it : for if one did not know it to be an extract from an ancient trial, one wouid say it was admirably and accurately written for the present purpose.—It is a sort of prophetic bird’s eye view of what we are engaged in at this moment : “ there y be war levied (continues lord Holt in Freind’s case) without any design upon the a pA nll ery pf ARaVAREN SEYEED is high treason, thoug: rposing ai igni: such a levying of war Ly pi spel ‘As for aie if persons do assemble themselves, and act with force, in opposition to some law, and hope thereby 
MR_EVANS 8664 The most rebellious movements towards a reform in goverument, not directed against the king’s person, will not, according to lord Holt, support the charge before you.—I might surround the House of Commons with fifty thousand men, for the express purpose of forcing them, by duress, to repeal any law that is oifensive to me, or to pass a bill for altering elections, without being a possible object of this prosecution.—Under the other branch of the statute, I might indeed be convicted of levying war, but not of compassing the king’s death; and if I only conspired and meditated this rising to repeal laws by rebellion, I could be convicted of nothing but a high misdemeanor.—I would give my friends the case upon a special verdict, and let them hang me if they could. How much more might I give it them if the conspiracy imputed was not to effect a reform by violence, but, as in the case before us, by pamphlets and speeches, which might produce universal suffrage, which universal aucune might eat out and destroy aristocracy, which destruction might lead to the fall of monarchy, and, in the end, to the death of the king.—Gentlemen, if the cause were not too serious, I should liken it to the play with which we amuse our children. “ This is the cow with the crumpledy horn, which gored the dog, that worried the cat, that ate the rat, &c. ending in the “ house which Jack built. Ido therefore maintain, upon the express authority of lord Holt, that, to convict a prisoner, charged with this treason, it is absolutely necessary that you should be satisfied of his intention against the king's life, as charged in the indictment, and that no design against the king’s government will even bea Jegal overt act to be left to a jury as the evidence of such am intention (much less the substantive and consummate treason), unless the conspiracy be directly pointed against the person of the king. The case of lord George Gordon is opposed to this as a high and modern decision; and the attorney gencral descended indeed to a very humble and lowly authority, when he sought to maintain his argument by my own specch, as counsel for that unfortunate person. The passage of it alluded to lies at this moment before me; and I shall repeat it, and re-maintain it today.—But let it first be recollected, that lord George Gordon was not indicted for compassing or imagining the king’s death, under the first branch of the statute, but for levying war under the second. It never indecd entered into the conception of any man living, that such an indictment could have been maintained, or attempted against him: I appeal to one of your lordships now present, for whose learning and capacity I have the greatest and highest respect, and who sat upon that trial, that it was not insinuated from the bar, much less adjudged by the Court, that the evidence had any bearing upon the first branch of treason.—I know that I may safely appeal to Mr. Justice Buller for the truth of this assertion; and nothing surely in the passage from my address to the jury, has the remotest allusion to assimilate a conspiracy against the king’s government (collateral to his person) with a treason against his life— My words were, “ To compass or imagine the death of the king ; such imagination, or purpose of the mind, visible only to its great Author, being manifested by some open act ; an institution obviously directed, not only to the security of his natural person, but to the stability of the government; the lite of the prince being so interwoven with the constitution of the state, that an stent to destroy the one, is justly held to be a rebellious conSpiracy against the other. 
MR_EVANS 8669 Lord George Gordon assembled an immense multitude around the House of Commons, a system so opposite to that of the persons accused before this commission, that it appears from the evidence they would not even allow a man to come amongst them, because he had been lord George's attorney.—The Lords and Commons were absolutely blockaded in the chambers of Parliament; and if control was the intention of the prisoner, it must be wholly immaterial what were the deliberations that were to be controlled ; whether it was the continuance of Roman Catholics under penal laws, the repeal of the septennial act, or a total change of the structure of the House ofCommons, that was the object of violence,— the attack upon the legislature of the country would have been the same. That the tultitude were actually assembled round the Houses, and brought there by the prisoner, it was impossible for me as his counsel even to think of denying, nor that their tumultuous ; proceedings were not in effect productive of great intimidation, and even danger, to the rds and Commons, in the exercise of their authority : neither did I venture to question the law, that the assembling the multitude Sor that purpose, was levying war within the gtatute.—Upon these facts, therefore, applied to the doctrines we have heard upon this trial, there would have been nothing in lord George Gordon's case to try; he must have been instantly without controversy, convicted. But lord Mansfield did not say to the jury (according to the doctrines that have been broached here), that if they found the multitude assembled by the prisoner, were in fact palpably intimidating and controlling the parliament in the exercise of their functions, he was guilty of high treason, whatever his intentions might have been.—Le did not tell them that the inevitable consequence of assembling a hundred thousand people round the legislature, being a control on their proceedings, was Lhsrefors a levying war, though collected from folly and rashness, without the intention of violence or control.—If this had been the doctrine of lord Mansfield, there would (as I paid before) have been nothing to try; for I admitted in terms, that his conduct was the gxtremity of rashness, and totally inconsistent with his rank in the country, and his station asa member of the House of Commons.— But the venerable magistrate never for a moment lost sight of the grand ruling principle of criminal justice, that crimes can have no seat but in the mind; and upon the pris ner’s intention, and ypon his intention alone, he expressly left the whole matter to the jury, with the following directions, which I shall read verbatim from the trial : 
MR_EVANS 8672 If upon this point your opinion should he in the negative, that makes an end of the whole, and the prisoner ought to be acquitted ; but if your opi nion should be, that the intent of this multitude, and the violence they committed, was to force a repeal, there arises a second point
MR_EVANS 8677 I have no doubt at all, that, eee that budling, no judgment of treason could be pronounced : but the difficulty would be, to meet with a jury, who, upon the bare evidence of such a conspiracy, would find such a verdict. There might be possible cireumstances to justify such a negative of the intention, but they must come from the prisoner. -In that case the Crown would rest upon the conspiracy to depose, which would be prime facie and cogent evidence of the compassing, and leave the hard task of rebutting it, on the defendants—I say the hard task, because the case put is ofa direct rebellious force, acting against the king; not only abrogating his authority, but‘imprisoning and expelling his person from the kingdom. I am not seeking to abuse the reasots and consciences of juries in the examination of facts, but am only resisting the confounding them with arbitrary propositions of law. 
MR_EVANS 8680 To establish this point, has been the scope of all that you have been listening to, with so much indulgence and patience. It was my intention to have farther supported myself, by a great many authorities, which I have been Saborigusty extractin; from the different books of the law; but find I must pause here, lest I consume my strength in this preliminary part of the case, and leave the rest defective. 
MR_EVANS 8682 The charge is not of a con spiracy to hold the convention in Scotland, which was actually held there; nor of the part they took in its actual proceedings; but the overt act, to which all the others are sabsidiary and subordinate, is, a supposed conpiracy to hold a convention in England, which never in fact was held; and consequently all the vast load of matter which it has been decided you should hear, that does not immediately connect itself with the charge in question, 1s ad laid mes you (as Court has repeatedly expressed it) to prove that in point of fact as nroceeding aes had, the ality of which is for your j ent; and as far, and as far only, 23 they can be connected with the prisoner, and the act which be stands charged with, to be left to you, as evidence of the intention with which the holding of the second convention was projected, 
MR_EVANS 8686 It rests therefore with the crown, to show by reat PRoor that this osrexsiste pu , and the whole mass of correspondence upon the table, was only a cloak to conceal a hidden machination, to subvert by force the entire authorities of the kingdom, and to assume them to themselves. Whether a reform of parliament be a wise 0 an murine expedient; whether, if it were atcomplished, it would ultimately be with benefits, er dangers, to the country, I will not undertake to investigate, and for this plain reason ; because it is wholly foreign ta the’ subject before us.—But when we ar trying the integrity of men’s intentions, and are examining whether their complaints of defects in the representation of the House of Commons, be bond fide, or uty scere stalking-horse for treason and rebelfion, it becomes a most essential inquiry, whether they be the first who have uttered these complaints; whether they have taken up notions for the first time, which never occurred to others; and whether, in seeking to interfere practt cally in an alteration of the constitution, the? have manifested, by the novelty of their com duct, a spirit inconsistent with for rity. gentlemen, I, for one, confess (for! think the safest way of defendin ol ger for his life before-an enlightened tribunsl, 5 defend him ingeenuouwsly), I, for one. co that if the defects in the constitution of pet liament, which ate the subject of the and the foundation of all the proceedings’ 
MR_EVANS 8688 In such a case I should naturally exthat you would ask yourselves this question—Why should it occur to the prisoner at the bar, and to a few others in the year 1794, immediately after an important revolution in another country, to find fault, on a sudden, with a constitution which had endured for si without the imputation of defect, and which no good subject had evet thought of touching with the busy hand of reformation 2 I candidly admit that such a9 qiestion would octur to the mind of every reasonable man, 4nd could admit no favourable answer—But surely this admission entitles me, on the other hand, to the concession, that if, in comparing their writings, and examining their conduct with the writings and conduct of the best and most unsuspected persons in the best and most unsuspected times, we find them treading in the paths which have distinguished their highest superiors; if we find them only exposing the same defects, and pursuing the asme or similar courses for their removal,—it would be the height of wickedness and injustice to torture expressions, and pervert conduct into treason aud rebellion, which had recently lifted up others to the love of the mation, to the confidence of the sovereign, and to all the honours of the state. The natural justness of this reasoning is so obvious, that we have only to examine the fact; and, considering under what auspices the prisoners are brought before you, it may be fit that I should set out with reminding you, that the great earl of Chatham began and established the fame and glory of his life upon the very cause in which my unfortunate clients were engaged, and that he left it as an inheritance to the present minister of the crown, as the foundation of his fame and glory after him ; apd his fame and glory were accordingly raised upon it; and if the crown’s evidence bad been carried as far back as it might have been (for the institution of only one of the two Tshdon Societies is befote us), you would have found that the Constitutional Society ewed its earliest credit with the country, if Rot its. very birth, to the Iabour of the present winister, and its ptofessed principles to hisrace the duke of Richmond, high also in his majesty’s present councils, whose plan of reform has) been clearly established by the whele of the written evidence, and by every withess examined for the crown, to have: been the type and model of all the soeeties in the supposed conspiracy, and uniacted upon in form and in substance 
MR_EVANS 8694 TI maintain that it has the most decisive applieation ; because this book has beea put into the hands of the: crown witnesses, who have one and all of them recognised it, and declared it to have been, bona fide, the plan which they pursued. 
MR_EVANS 8696 If they are not, let us return home, since there is no evidence at all, and the cause is over—All the guilt, if any there be, proceeds from their testimony ; if they are not to be believed, they have proved nothing; since the crown cannot force upon you that part of the evidence which suits its purpose, and ask you to reject the other which does not, The witnesses are either entirely credible, or undeserving ofall credit, and Ihaveno mterest in the alternative. This is precisely the state of the cause.—For, with regard to all the evidence that is written, let it never be forgotten, that itis not upon me to defend my clients against it, but for the crown to extract from it the materials of accusation.—They do not contend that the treason is upon the surface of it, but im the datent intention ; which intention must, therefore, be supported by exe trinsic proof; but which is nevertheless directly negatived and beat down by every witmess they have called, leaviag them nothing but commentaries and criticisras against both feet and language, to which, for the present, I shall content myself with replying in the authoritative lancuage of the Court, in the earliest stage of the proceedings : 
MR_EVANS 8698  i this (though it requires nothing to support it, either in reason or authority) I desire to add thedirection of lord chief justice Holt to the jury, on the trial of sir John Parkyns: tlenren; it is not fit that there should be any strained or forced construction put upon a man’s actions when he is tried for his life. You ought to have a full and satisfactory evidence that he is guilty, before you pronounce him so. In this assimilation of the writings of the societies to the writings of the duke of Richmond and others, I do not forget that it has been truly said by the lord chief justice, in the course of this very cause, that ten or twenty men’s committing crimes, furnishes no defence for other men in committing them. Certainly it does not; and I fly to no such sanctuary ; but in trying the prisoner’s intentions, and the intentions of those with whom he associated and acted, if I can show them to be only insisting upon the same principles that have distinguished the men most eminent for wisdom and virtue in the country, it will not be very easy to declaim or argue them into the pains of death, whilst our Bosoms are glowing with admiration at the works of those very persons who would condemn them. 
MR_EVANS 8700 No difference of opinion can ever make me forget to acknowledge the sublimity. of his genius, the vast reach of his understanding, and his universal acquaintance with the histories and constitution of nations ; I also disavow the introduction of the writings, with the view of involving the author in any a parent . inconsistencies, which would tend, Indeed, to defeat rather than to advance my purpose.—I stand here to-day to claim at your hands, a fair and charitable interpretation of human conduct, and I shall not set out with giving an example of uncharitableness.—A man may have reason to change his opinions, or perhaps the defect may be in myself, who collect that they are changed ; I leave it to God to judge of the heart—my wish is, that christian charity may prevail, that the public harmony, which has been lost, may be restored; that all England may reunite in the bonds of love and affection, and that when the court is broken up by the sequel of the prisoners, all heart-burnings and animosities may cease; that, whilst yet we work in the light, we may try how we can save our country by a common effort; and that, instead of shamelessly setting one half of society against the other by the force of armed associations, and the terrors of courts of justice, our spirits and our strength may be combined in the glorious cause of our country.—By this, I do not mean in the cause of the present, war, which I protest against as unjust, calamitous, and destructive; but this is not the place for such a subject, I only advert to it to prevent mistake or misrepresentation. 
MR_EVANS 8705 I hold in my hand a state of the Yepresentation which, if the thing were not otherwise notorious, I would prove to have been lately offered in proof to the House of : 
MR_EVANS 8707 What ought to be said of a House : 
MR_EVANS 8710 I read the passage, to warn you against considering hard words against the House of Commons as decisive evidence of treason against the King.—The assage is in a well-known work, called, houghts on the Causes of the present Discontents; and such discontents will always be present, whilst their causes continue.— The word present will apply just as well now, and much better then tothe times when the honourable gentleman wrote his book ; fs we are new in the heart and bawels of ana ther war, and groaning under its additional burdens.—I shail therefare leaye it to the learned gentleman, who is to reply, ta show us what has happened since qur author wrote which renders the parliament less liable the same observations now. 
MR_EVANS 8713 An influence which operated without noise and violence; which converted the very antagonist into the instrument of power; which contained init self a perpetual principle of growth and renovation; and which the distresses and the prosperity of the country equally tended to augment, was an admirable substitute fora prerogative, that, being only the offspring of antiquated prejudices, had moulded in its ¢nginal stamina irresistible principles of decay and dissolution. 
MR_EVANS 8715 W hy is the wo ment to be taken in its strictest and least obvious sense against a poor shoemaker or any plain tradesman at a Sheffield club, while it is interpreted in its papular, though less correct acceptation, in the works of the most distinis] scholar of .the age?—Add to this, that the cases are nat atall similar: for Mr. Burke uses the ward parliament throughaut, when he is speaking af the House of Commans, without any cancamitant words which conyey an explanation, but the sense of his subject; whereas parliament is fastened upon the prisoner ag meaning something be, yond the House of Commons, when it can have na possible meaning beyond jt; since from the beginning to the ead it is joined with the words representugion of the people : the representation af the people in parliament!—Does not this most palpably. mean the House of Commons, when we know that the people have no representation in either of the other branches of the government ? 
MR_EVANS 8717 If he had, would he have sent the answer he did, and agreed to present their petition ?—They wrote also to the Society of the Friends of the People, and invited them to send delegates to the Convention : the attorney general, who has made honourable and candid mention of that body, will not suppose that it would have contented itself with’ refusing the invitation in terms of cordiality and r , if, with all the knowledge they had of their transactions, they had conceived themselves to have been invited to the formation of a body, which was to over-rule and extinguish all the authorities of the state; yet upon the perversion of these two terms, parliament and convention, against their natural interpretation, against a similar use of them by others, and against the solemn explanation of them by the Crown’s own witnesses, this whole fabric of terror and accusation stands for its support: letters, it seems, written to other people, are to be better understood by the gentlemen round this table, who never saw them till months after they were written, than by those to whom, they were addressed and sent; and no rightinterpretation, forsooth, is. to ie. expected m writings when pursued: in their regular series, but they are to he made distinct by: binding them up. in a large volume, alongside. of others totally unconnected with them, and) the very existence of: whose authors was. unknown to one another. , 
MR_EVANS 8725 Las the king’s inheritance no deeper or wider roots than this? Yes, sratiemen, it has—it sands upon the love of the people, who consiler their own inheritance tobe supported by the king’s constitutional authority: this is men. It is from the revered work of Mr. Locke, and not from the revolution in France, that one of the papers in the evidence, the: most stigmatized, most obviously flowed ; for it is proved that Mr. Yorke held in his hand Mr. Locke upon government, when he delivered his speech on the Castle-hill at Sheffield, and that he expatiated largely upon it; —well, indeed, might the witness say he exatiated largely, for there are many well-selected passages taken verbatim from the book; and here, in justice to Mr. White, let me notice the fair and honourable manner in which, in the absence of the clerk, he read this extraordi performance. He delivered it not merely with distinctness, but in a manner s impressive, that, I believe, every man in court was affected by it. 
MR_EVANS 8727 Might they not legally form conventions or meetings (for the name is just nothing) toad just a plan of rational union for a wise choice of representatives when parliament should be dissolved?—May not the people meet to consider their interests preparatory to, and independently of, a petition for any specific object?—My friend seems to consider the House of Commons as a substantive and permanent the true prop of the throne; and the love ofpart of the constitution; he seems to forget every people upon earth will for ever uphold a government, founded, as ours is, upon reason and consent, as long as government shall be itself attentive to the general interests which are the foundations and the ends of all human authority.—Let us banish then these unworthy and impolitic fears of an unrestrainedand an enlightened people; let us not tremble at the rights of man, but, by giving to men their rights, secure their affections, and, through their affections, their obedience ; —let us not broach the dangerous doctrine that the rights of kings and of men are incomseal ur government at the Revolution ye an upon their harmonious incorporation ; and Mr. Locke defended king William's title that the parliament dies a natural death; that the people then re-enter into their rights, and that the exercise of them is the most imrtant duty that can belong to social man — ow are such duties to be exercised with effect, on momentous occasions but by concert and communion?—May not the peopleassembledin their elective districts, resolve to trust no longer those by whom they have been betrayed? May they not resolve to vote for no map who contributed by his voice to this calamitous war, which has thrown such grievous and u necessary burthens upon them? May not say, “We will not vote for those who pdt 1 aaa “ At the time of this trial solicitor to tbe upon no other principle than the rights oftreasury. 
MR_EVANS 8730 But be that as it may, it is enough for my purpose that the maxim, that the king might grant universal representation, as a right betore inherent in the whole people to be represented, stands upon the authority of Mr. Locke, the man, next to sir Isaae Newton, of the greatest strength of understanding that England, perhaps, ever had; high too in the favourof king William, and enjoying one of the most axalied offices in the state.—Dr. Locke says, book 2d, ch, 13, sect. 
MR_EVANS 8744 I must express myself as the current of my mind will c: me. 
MR_EVANS 8746 Why is every thing to be held up as bone fide when the example is set, and male Jide when it is followed ?—Why have I not as good a claim to take credit for honest purpose in the poor man I am defending, against whom not a contumelious expression has been proved, as when we find the same expressions in the mouths of the duke of Richmoond or Mr. Burke?—I ask nothing more from this observation, than that a sober judgment may be pronounced from the quality of the acts which can be fairly established; each individual standing responsible only for his own conduct, instead of having our imaginations tainted with cant phrases, and a farra; of writings and speeches, for which the prisoner is not responsible, and for which the authors, if they be criminal, are liable to be brought to justice. 
MR_EVANS 8750 And if these natural rights are farther affirmed and declared by express convenants, clearly defined and secured against chicane,, power, and authority, by written instruments and positive engagements, they are in a still better condition; they then partake not only of the sanctity of the object so secured, but of that solemn public faith itself, which secures an object of such importance. Indeed, this formal recognition, by the sovereign power, of an original right in the subject, can never be subverted, but by rooting up the holding radical principles of government, and even of society itself. 
MR_EVANS 8752 No!—because it was uonecessary. The sense of the people, sent a corrupt and scandalous government, dissolved it, by almost the ordinary forms by which the old government itself was administered. K img William sent his writs to those who had sat in the former Parliament: but will any man, therefore, tell me, that that Parliament reorgani the government without the will of the le? and that it was not their consent which entailed on King William a particular inheritance, to be enlaved under the dominion of the law? Gentlemen, it was the denial of these princi ples, asserted at the revolution in En; that brought forward the author of the Ri of Man, and stirred up this controversy which has given such alarm to Government : but for this the literary labours of Mr. Paine hsd closed.—He asserts it himself in his book, and every body knows it—It was not the French revolution, but Mr. Burke's Reflec tions upon it, followed up by another work o1 the same subject, as it regarded things in England, which brought forward Mr. Paine, and which rendered his works so much the object of attention in this country—Mr. Burke denied positively the very foundation upon which the revolution of 1688 must stand for its support, viz. the right of the people to change their government ; and he asserted, m the teeth of His Majesty’s title to the Crown, that no such right in the people existed, this is the true history of the Second Part of the Rights of Man.—The First Part had little more aspect to this country than to Japan, it asserted the right of the people of France to act as they had acted, but there was litte which pointed to it as an example for England.—There had been a despotic authority in France which the people liad thrown down, and Mr. Burke seemed to question their right to do so: Mr. Paine maintained the contrary in his answer ; and having imbibed the princtples of republican government, during the «merican revolution, he mixed with the controversy many coarse and harsh remarks upon monarchy as established, even in England, or in any possible form.— But this was collateral to the great object of his work, whiclt was to maintain the right of the people to choose their government; this was the right which was questioned, and the assertion of it was most interesting to many who were most strenuously attached to the English government; since men may assert the right of every people to choose their government without seeking to destroy their own. ‘This accounts for mapy expressions imputed to the unfortunate prisoners, which I have often uttered myself, and shall continue to utter every day of my life, and call upon the spies of government to record them : I witt say ANY WHERE, WITHOUT FEAR, NAY, I WILL say HERE, WHERE I STAND, THAT AN ATTEMPT TO INTERFERE, BY DESPOTIC COMBINATION AND VIOLENCE, WITH ANY GOVERNMENT WHICH A PEOPLE CHOOSE TO GIVE TO THEMSELVES, WHETHER IT BE GOOD OR EVIL, IS AN OPPRESSION AND SUBVERSION OF THE NATURAL AND UNALIENABLE RIGHTS OF MAN; AND THOUGH THE GOVERNMENT OF THI3 COUNTRY SHOULD COUNTENANCE SUCH A SYSTEM, IT WOULD NOT ONLY BE STILL LEGAL FOR ME TO EXPRESS MY DETESTATION OF 17, a3HERE DELIBERATELY EXPRESS 1T, RUT IT WOULD BECOME MY INTEREST AND My DuTY. For, IF COMBINATIONS OF DESPOTISM CAN ACCOMPLISH SUCH A PURPOSE, WHO SHALL TELL ME, WHAT OTHER NATION SHALL NOT BE THE PREY OF THEIR AMBITION?—Upon the very principle of denying to a people the right uf governing themselves, how are we toresist the I'rench, should they attempt by violence to fasten their government upon us? Or, what inducement would there be for resistance to preserve laws, which are not, it seems, our own, but which are unalterably imposed upon us?—The very argument strikes, as with a palsy, the arm and vigour of the nation.—I Pold dear the privileges I am contending for, not as privileges hostile to the constitution, but as necessary for its preservation; and if the French were to intrude by force upon the government of our own free choice, t should leave these papers, and return toa potemior that, perhaps, I better understand. 
MR_EVANS 8755  bring on a revolution ?—No !—Choose others in their stead. They refer also to their address, which lay before their correspondent, which address expresses itself thus: “ Laying aside all claim to originality, we claim no other merit than that of reconsidering and verifying what has already been urged in our common cause by the Duke of Richmond and Mr. Pitt, and their then honest party. 
MR_EVANS 8757 Let it be recollected also, that if this correspondence was calculated for deception, the deception must have been understood and agreed upon by all parties concerned; for otherwise you have a conspiracy amongst persons who are at cross purposes with one another: consequently the conspiracy, if’ this be a branch of it, is a conspiracy of thov-sands and ten thousands, from one end of the kingdom to the other, who are all guilty, if any uf the Prisoners are guilty : upwards of forty thousand persons, upon the lowest calculation, must alike be liable to the pains and penalties of the law, and hold their lives as tenants at will of the Ministers of the Crown.—In whatever aspect, therefore, this prosecution is regarded, new difficulties and new uncertainties and terrors surround it. 
MR_EVANS 8759 how are men to sa por themselves who desire a constitotional reform? The object and the mode of effecting it were equally legal—this is most obvious from the conduct of the parliament of Ireland, acting under directions from England; they passed the convention bill, and made it only a misdemeanor, knowing that, by the law as it stood, it was no misdemeanor at all—Whether this statement may meet with the approbation of others, I care not; I know the fact to be so, and I maintain that you cannot prove upon the convention which met at Edinburgh, and which is c' today with high treason, one tho th part of what, at fass, worked up government in Ireland to the pitch of voting it a mi Gentl I ot vi icaliing kay iy Gentlemen, f am not vin that can promote disorder in the stro bat am maintaining that the worst possible di that can fall apenas country is, when subjects are deprived of the sanction of clear and usambiguous laws.—If wrong is committed, let punishment follow according to the messure of that wrong: if men are turbalent, let them be visited by the laws according to the measure of their turbulency : if they write libels upon government, let them be according to the quality of those libels: but roust not, and will not, because the staility of the monarchy is an important concern to the nation, confound the nature and distinctions of crimes, and pronounce that the life of the sovereign has been invaded, because the privileges of the people have been, perhaps, irregularly and hotly asserted : you will not, to give security to government, repeal the most sacred laws instituted for our protection, and which are, indeed, the only consideration for our submitting at all te government.—If the plain letter of the statute of Edward Srd applies to the conduct of the prieoners, let it in God’s name be apfed bet let neither their conduct, nor the aw that is to jutge it be tortured by constructon; nor transaction, from whence you are to form a dispassionate conclusion of intention, to be magnified by scandalous epithets, nor overwhelmed in an undistinguishable mass of matter, in which you may be lost and bewildered, having missed the only patts which could have furnished a elue to oo ePaper Sg Se Leesa’ lemen, this religious r the liberty of the subject, ies constructive treason, is well iltostra by Dr. Johnson, great author of our English Dictionary, a man remarkable for his love of order, and for high principles of government, but who had the wisdom to know that the great end of vernment, in all its forms, is the security of iberty and fife under the law.—This man, of Masculine mind, though disgusted at the disorder which ford George Gordon created, felt & triumph in his acquittal, and exclaimed, as we learn from Mr. Boswell, “I hate lord G. Gordon, but I am glad he was not convicted of this constructive treason ; for though I hate him, I love my country and myself"—This extraordinary man, no doubt, remembered with lord Hale, that when the law is broken injustice knows no bounds, but runs as asthe wit and invention of accusers, or the detestation of persons accused, will ca t—You will pardon this almost perpetual recurrence to these considerations; but the Present is a season when I have a right to call upon you by every thing sacred in humanity and justice; by every principle which ought 'o influence the heart of nan, to consider the Muation in which I stand before you.—I stand here for a poor, unknown, unprotected individual, charged withadesign to subvert ernment of the country, and the dearest nights of its inhabitants; a charge which col against him a force sufhcient to crush to de any private man; the whole weight of the crown presses upon him; parliament has been sitting uponex-parteevidence for Months together ; and rank and property are associated, from one end of the kingdom to the other, to avert the supposed consequences treason. I am making to complaint of this; but surely it is an awful summons to impartial attention; surely it excuses me for so often calling upon your integrity and firm. ness to do equal justice between the crown so supported, and an unhappy prisoner so unprotected. 
MR_EVANS 8761 What is it to them, when, if upon this evidence there can stand a conviction for high treason, it is plain that n0 man can be said to have a life which is his own ?—For how can he posmbiy Roo by what engines it may be snared, or from what unknown sources it may be attacked and overpowered ?—Such a monstrous: precedent would be as ruinous to the king as tw his subjects.—We are in a crisis of our affairs; which putting justice out of the question, calls in sound policy for the greatest prudence and moderation.— At a time when Other nations are dis to subvert their establishments, let it be our wisdom to make the bad se fee) the practical benefits of our own: let us seek to bring good out of evil : the distracted inhabitants of the world will fly to us for sanctuary, driven out of their countries from the dreadful consequences of not attending to seasonable reforms in government; victims to the folly of suffering corruptions to continue, till the whole fabric of suciety is dissolved and tumbles into ruin. Landing upon our shores, they will feel the blessing of security, and they will discover in what it consists ; they will read this trial, and their hearts will palpitate at your decision : they will say to one another, and their voices will reach to the ends of the earth; may the constitution of England endure for ever !—the sacred and ios Temaining sanctuary for the oppressed : 
MR_EVANS 8765 Is the thing within the compass of human belief?—If a man were offered 2 dukedom, ‘and twenty thousand a he for trying to believe it, he, ‘tt say be ieved it, as what will not man say for and honours? but he never in fact could lieve that this Edinburgh meeting was a patKamen ioe Great ce poe indeed mer e, from the proceedings of a few unarmed mee discusitag, in a constitutional manner, the means of obtaining a- reform in parliament; and who, to maintain the club, or whatever you choose to call it, collected a little money frony people who were well disposed to the cause ; a few shillings one day, and perhaps as many pence another?—I think as far as 1 could reckon it up, when the report from this great committee of supply was read to you, I counted that there had been raised, in the first session of this parliament, fifteen pounds, frum which indeed you must deduct two bad shillings, which are literally noticed in the ! 
MR_EVANS 8767  that a few harmless people, who sat, as they profess, to obtain a full representation of the people, were themselves, even in their own Imaginations, the complete representation which they sought for ?—Why should they sit from day to day to consider how they might obtain what they had already got?—If their object was an universal representation of the whole people, how is it credible they could pepport that universal representation to exist in themselves—in the representatives of a few societies instituted to obtain it for the country at large ?—If they were themselves the nation, why should the language of every resolution be, that reason ought to be their grand engine for the accomplishment of their object, and should be directed to convince the nation to speak to parliament in a voice that must be heard? The proposition, there‘ore, is too to cram down the throats of the Engish people, and this is the prisoner’s security. 
MR_EVANS 8769 Did they insist upon their privileges as subjects under the laws, or as a parliament enacting laws for others?—If they had said or done any thing to give colour to such an idea, there needed no spies to convict them ; the crown could have given ample indemnity for evidence from amongst themselves; the societies consisted of thousands and thousands of persons, some of whom, upon any calculation of human nature, might have been produced: the delegates, who attended the meetings, could not be supposed to have met, with adifferent intention from those who sent them; and, if the answer to that is, that the constituents are involved in the guilt of their representatives, we get back to the monstrous position from whick I observed you before to shrink back, with visible horror, when I stated a ; namely, the involving in the fate and consequence of this single trial every man, who corresponded with these societies, or who, as a member of societies in any pertof the kingdom, consented to the meeting which was assembled, or which was in prospect : but, I thank God, I have nothing to fear from those hydras, when I see before me such just and honourable men to hold the balance of justice. Gentlemen, the dissolution of this parliament speaksas strong a language asits conduct when sitting —How was it dissolved? When the magistrates entered, Mr. Skirving was in the chair, which he refused to leave : he considered and asserted his conduct to be legal, and therefore informed the magistrate be must ne his authority, — the itis; persion might appear to be involuntary, that the Subject, disturbed in his "Pealite, might be entitled to his remedy.—The magistrate on this took Mr. Skirving by the shoulder, who immediately obeyed ; the chair was quitted ina moment, and this great parliament broke up. What was the effect of all this poweeting at the time, when whatever beto it must have been best understood?—Were any of the parties indicted for high treason?—Were they indicted even for a breach of the peace in holding the Convention ?—None of these things.—The law of Scotland, arbitrary as it is, was to be disturbed to find a name for their offence, and the rules of trial to be violated to convict them: —They were denied their challenges to their Jurors, and other irregularities were. introduced, 80 as to be the subject of complaint in the House of Commons.— gentlemen, in what Tam saying, I am not standing up to vindicate all that they published during these proings, more especially those which were written in consequence of the trials I have just alluded to; but allowance must be made for a state of heat and irritation: they saw men whom they believed to be persecuted for what they conceived to be innocent; they saw them the victims of sentences which many would consider as equivalent to, if not wore than, judgment of treason: sentences which, at all events had never existed before, and such as, I believe, never will again with impunity. —But since I am on the subject of iatertion, I shall conduct myself with the same moderation which I have been prescribing ; I ; will cast no aspersions, but shall content myself with lamenting that these judgments were productive of cons Dees, which rarely follow from authority discreetly exercised. How easy is it then to di: of as much of the evidence as consu balfa day in the anathemas against the Scotch Judges! It appears that they came to variozs resolutions concerning them: seme good, some bad, and all of them irregular. Amongst others they compare them to Jeffries, and wish that they, who imitate his example, may meet his fate.—What then? — Irreverend expressions against Judges are not acts of high treason!—If they had assembled round the Court of Justiciary and hanged them in the execution of their offices, it would not have been treason within the statute— I am no advocate for disrespect to J 
MR_EVANS 8775 But it was alleged against her in parliament, that she had introduced spies amongst us, and held correspondence with disaffected persons, for the destruction of our constitution; this was the charge of our minister, and it was, therefore, held to be just and necessary, for the safety of the country, to hold France at arm’s length, and to avoid the very contagion of contact with her at the risk of war.—But, gentlemen, this charge against France was thought b many, to be supported by no better proofs than those against the prisoner.—In the public correspondence of the ambassador from the French king, and upon his death, as minister from the convention, with his majesty’s sraapect of state, documents which lie upon the table of the House of Commons, and which may be made evidence in the cause, the executive council repelled with indignation all the imputations, which to this very hour are held out as the vindications of quarrel, “ If there be such persons in England, says monsieur Chauvelin—“ has not England Jaws tu punish them ?—France disavows them such men are not Frenchmen. The same Correspondence conveys the most solemn assurances of friendship down to the very end of the year 1792—a period subsequent to all the er sa and addresses complained of.—Whether these assurances were faithful orotherwise,— whether it would have been prudent to have depended on them or otherwise,— whether the war was advisable or unadvisable,—are questions over which we have no jurisdiction, I only desire to bring to your recollection, that a man may be a friend to the rights of humanity and to the imprescriptible rights of social man, which is now a term of derision and contempt, that he may feel to the very soul for a nation beset by the sword of despots, and yet be a lover of his own country and its constitution. 
MR_EVANS 8777 The interests of a nation may often be one thing, and the interests of its government another; but the interest of those who hold government for the hour, is at all times different rom either. At the time many of the Papers before you were circulated on the subject of the war with France, many of the best and wisest men in this kingdom began to be driven by our situation to these melancholy reflections ; and thousands of persons, the most firmly attached to the principles of our constitution, and who never were members of any of these societies, considered, and still consider, Great Britain as the aggressor against France ; considered, and still consider, that she had a Tight to choose a government for herself, and that it was contrary to the first principles of justice, and, if possible, still more repugnant to the genius of uur own free constitution, to combine with despots for her destruction : who knows but that the external pressure upon France may have been the cause of that unheard-of state of society which we complain of? Who knows, but that, driven as she as been to exertions beyond the ordinary vigour of a nation, it has not been the parent of that unnatural and giant strength which threatens the authors of it with perdition? 
MR_EVANS 8780  For, strange as it may appear, there is no charge whatever before you of any one of those acts or writings, the evidence of which consumed so many daysin reading, and which has already nearly consumed my strength in only passing them in review before you.—If every line and letter of all the writings I have een commenting upon were admitted to be traitorous machinations, and if the convention in Scotland was an open rebellion, it is cenceded to be foreign to the presen purpose, unless as such criminality in them might show the views and objects of the persons engaged in them : on that principle only the Court has over and over again decided the evidence of them to be admissible; and on the same feweipie I have illustrated them in their orler as they happened, thatImight lead the prisoner in your view up to the very point and moment when the treason is supposed to have burst forth into the overt act for which he is arraigned before you. 
MR_EVANS 8782 I admit freely evey act which is imputed to the prisoner, and listen not so much with fear as with curiosity and wonder, to the treason sought to be connected with it. 
MR_EVANS 8785 I am, fellow citizen my humble measure), 3 friend to the rights of man. (Signed) “ T. Harpy, Secretary. 
MR_EVANS 8788 The letter says another British Convention ; and it describes the same objects as the first—compare all the papers for the calling this second convention with those for assembling the first, and you will find no difference, except that they mixed with them extraneous and libellous matter, arising obviously from the irritation produced by the sailing of the transports with their brethren condemned to exile. These papers have already been considered, and separated, as they ought to be, from the charge. 
MR_EVANS 8791  Had the imagining the death of’ the King ever been suspected by any body ?—Or when they were prosecuted for misdemeanors, was the prosecution considered as an indulgence conferred upon men whose lives had been forfeited : And is it to be endured, then, in this free land, made free too by the virtue of our forefathers, who placed the King upon his throne to maintain this freedom, that forty or fifty thousand people, in the different parts of the kingdom, assembling in their little societies to spread useful knowledge, and to ditfuse the principles of liberty, which the more widely hey are spread, the surer is the condition of our free government, are iu a moment, without warning, without any law or principle to warrant it, and without precedent or example, to be branded as traitors, and to be decimated as victims for unishment! The Constitutional Society aving answered the letter of the 27th of March, in the mannerIstated to you; committees, from each of the two societies, were appointed to confer together.—The Constitutional Society appointed Mr. Joyce, Mr. Kydd, Mr. Wardle, and Mr. Holcroft, all indicted; and Mr. Sharpe, the celebrated engraver, not indicted, but examined as a witness by the Crown; five were appointed by the Correspanding Society to meet these entlemen, viz. Mr. Baxter, Mr. Moore, Mr. Thelwall, and Mr. Hodgson, all indicted, aud Mr. Lovett, against whom the bill was thrown out. These gentlemen met at the house of Mr. Thelwall on the 11th of April, and there published the resolutions already commented on, in conformity with the general objects of the two societies, cxmresecdl in the letter of the 27th of March, and agreed to continue to meet on Mondays and Thursdays for farther conference on the subject. The first Monday was the 14th of April, of which we have had come to upon the sub-heard so much, and no mecting was held oa lescd by the Constitutionalthat day; the first Thursday was the 17th of April, but there was no meeting; the 21st of April was the second Monday, but there was still no meeting ; —the 24th of April was the second Thursday when the five of the Corresponding Suciety attended, but nobody coming to meet them from the other, nuthing of course was transacted; on Monday, the 28th of April, three weeks after their frsx appointment, this blosdy and impatient band of conspirators, secing that a Convention Bill was in projection, and tbat Hessians were landing on our coasts, at last assembled them. selves; and now we come to the point of action. Gentlemen, they met; they shook hands with each other; they talked over the news and the pleasures of the day, they wished one another a good evening, and retired to their homes : it is in vain to hide it, they certainly did all these things —The same alurming scene was repeated on the three following days of meeting, and on Monday, May the 12th, would, but for the vigilance of Government, have probably again takea place: but on that day Mr. Hardy was arrested, his papers seized, and the conspiracy which pervaded this devoted country was dragged into the face of day. ‘To be ald a gentlemen, you have Literatry the whole it before you in the meetings I have just stated; in which you find ten gentlemen, appointed by two peaceable sucieties, conyersing upon the subject of a constitutional reform in parliament, publishing the result of theig deliberations, without any other arms than one supper-knife ; which, when I come to the subject of arms, I will, in form, lay before you. —Yet for this, and for this alone, you are asked to devote the prisoner before you, and his unfortunate associates, to the pains and penalties of death, and not to death alone, but to the eternal stigma and infamy of having conceived the detestable and horrible design of dissolving the government of their country, and of striking at the life of their Sovereign, who had never given offence to them, nor te any of his subjects. Gentlemen, as a conspiracy of this formidable extension, which had po less for its object than the sudden annihilation of all the existing authorities of the country, and of every thing that supported them, could not be even gravely stated to have an existence, without contemplation of force to give it effect; it was absolutely necessary to impreag upon the public mind, and to establish, hy formal evidence, upon the present occasion, that such a force was actually in preparation, —This most important and indispensable pert of the cause was attended with insurmoun able difficulties, not only from its being um founded in fact, but because it had been expressly negatived by the whole conduct of Government: for although the motions of all these societies had been watched for two years together; though their spies had regu larly attended, and collected regular journals of their proceedings ; yet when the first Report was finished, the Habeas Corpus Act suspended upon the foundation of the facts contained in it, there was not to be found, from one end of itto the other, even the insinuation of arms; I believe that this circumstance made a great impression upon all the thinking dispassionate part of the public, and that the materials of the first Report were thought to furnish but a slender argument to support such a total eclipse of liberty. No wonder, then, that the discovery of a pike in the interval hetween the two Reports, should have been highly estimated—I mean no reflections upon Government, and only state the matter, as a man of great wit very publicly reported it; he said that the discoverer, when he first bebeld the long-looked-for pike, was transported beyond himself with enthusiasm and delight, and that he hung over the rusty instrument with all the raptures of 2 fond mother, who embraces her first-born infant, “ and thanks her God for all her travail past. 
MR_EVANS 8793 If you are deceived in t, who shall measure the boundaries of the deception?—This man says he was at first for universal suffrage; Mr. Yorke had persuaded him, from all the books, that it was the best; but that be afterwards saw reason to think otherwise, and was not tor going the length of the Duke of Richmond: 
MR_EVANS 8795 You have, therefore, positively and distinctly, upon the universal authority of the evidence of the Crown, the people of Sheffield, who are charged as at the head of a republican conspiracy, proved to be associated on the very principles which, at different times, have distinguished the most eminent persons in this kingdom; and the charge made upon them, with regard to arms, is cleared up by the same universal testimony. 
MR_EVANS 8797 In consequence of the King's proclamation, a great number of honourable, zealous persons, who had been led by a thousand artifices to believe, that there was a just cause of alarm in the country, took very extraordinary steps for support of the magistracy.—The publicans were directed not to entertain persons who were friendly. to a reform of Parliament; and alarms of change and revolution pervaded the country, which became greater and greater, as our ears were hourly assailed with the successive calamities of France.—Others saw things in an opposite light, and considered that these calax mities were made the pretext for extinguishing British liberty; heart-burnings arose between the two parties; and some, I am afraid a great many, wickedly or ignorantly interposed in a quarrel which zeal had begun. —The societies were disturbed in their meetings, and even the private dwellings of many of their members were illegally violated.—It appears by the very evidence for the Crown, by which the cause must stand or fall, that many of the friends of reform were daily insulted,—their houses threatened to be pulled down, and their peaceable meetings beset by pretended magistrates, without the process of the law.—These proceedings naturally sugsted the propriety of having arms for selfHelence, the first and most unquestionable privilege of man, in or out of society, and expressly provided for by the very letter of English law.—It was ingeniously put by the learned Counsel, in the examination ef a witness, that it was complained of amongst them, that very little was sufficient to obtuin a warrant from some magistrates, and that therefore it was as well to be provided for those who might have warrants as for those who had none. gentlemen, I am too much exhausted to pursue or argue such u difference, even if it existed upon the evidence, because if the societies in question (however mistakenly) considered their mectings to be legal, and the warrants to disturb them to be beyond the authority of the magistrate to grant, they had a right, at the peril of the legal consequenees, to stand upon their defence; and it is no tranegression of the law, much less high treason against the King, to resist his officers when they Pa the bounds of their authority. So much for the general evidence of arms; and the first and last time that even the name of the prisoner is connected with the subject, is by aletter he received from a person of the name of Davison. I am anxious that this part of the case should be distinctly understood, and I will, therefore, bring back this letter to your attention’; the letter is as follows: 
MR_EVANS 8802 It is in evidence, by this very Moody, to whom the answer was to be sent, and who was examined as a witness by the crown, that he never received any answer tothe letter ; and, although there was an uniseizure of papers, no such letter, nor any other, appeared to have been written; and, what is more, the letter to Norwich, from Davison, enclosed in his letter to Hardy, was never forwarded, but was found in his custody when he was arrested, three weeks afterwards, folded up in the other, and unopened, as he received it, Good God! what is become of the humane sanc of Englisheae is the sense meanin of the term proveably in the statute of kin, Edward, if such evidence can be receiv: penne an English subject, on a trial for his life?—If a man writes a letter to me about pikes, or about any thing else, can I help it? 
MR_EVANS 8804 He never returned an answer; he never forwarded the enclosed to Norwich; —he never even communicated the letter itself to his own society, although he was its secretary, which showed he considered it as the unauthorized, officious co! dence of a private man; he never upon it st all, nor appears to have regarded it as dangerous or important, since he neither nor concealed it. gentlemen, I declare I hardly know in what language to e: my astonishment, that the crown can ask you shed the blood of the man at the bar upea such foundations.—Yet this is the whole of the written evidence concerning arms: forthe remainder of the plot rests, for its foundation, upon the parole evidence, the whole of which I shall pursue with precision, and not suffer 3 link of the chain to pass unexamined. 
MR_EVANS 8806 He is raz Csows’s WITNESS, WHOM THEY OFFER TO YOU AS THE WITNESS OF TRUTH, and he started with hort at the idea of violence, and spoke with visible reverence for the king; saying, God fortid that he should touch him ; but he, neverthe less, had a pike for himself. Indeed, be manliness with which he avowed it, gave is evidence —“ No additional strength to his e doubt. says he, “I had a pike, but I would not have remained an hour a member of the society, if I had heard a syllable, that it was in the contemplation of any body to employ pikes or any other arms against the king or the government.—We meant to petition parliament, through the means of the convention of Edinburgh, thinking that the House of Commons would listen to this expression of the general sentiments of the people; for it bad been thrown out, he said, in parliament, that the people did not desire it themselves. Mr. Broonthead, whose evidence I have already commented upvon, a sedate, plain, sensible man, spoke also of his affection to the government, and of the insults and threats which had been offered to the people of Sheffield: he says, “ I heard of arms on the Castle-hill, but it is fit this should be distinctly explained: a wicked hand-bill, to provoke and terrify the multitude, had been thrown about the town in the night, which caused agitation in the minds of the people; and it was then spoken of, as being the right of every individual, to have arms for defence ; but there was no idea ever started of resisting, much Jess of attaching, the government. I never heard of such athing. I fear God, said the witness, “ and honour the king; and would Not have consented to send a delegate to Edinburgh, but for peaceable and legal pur
MR_EVANS 8809 Davison, he said, was his customer ; he told him that people began to think themselves in danger, and he therefore made the handles of the pikes for sale, to the number of a dozen and a half, and one likewise for himself, without conceiving that he offended against any law. “I love the King, said Widdison, “as much as any man, and all the people I associated with did the same; I would not have stayed with them if they had not : Mr. Yorke often told me privately, that he was for universal representaUon, and so were we all—THE DUKE oF RicHMOND’S PLAN WAS OUR ONLY OBJECT. 
MR_EVANS 8811 My friend is so good as to furnish me with this farther observation, that Widdison said he had often. heard those who called themselves aristocrats say, that if an invasion of the country should take place, they would begin with destroying their enemies at home, that they might be unanimous inthe defence of their country. — 
MR_EVANS 8814 This is the whole sum and substance of the evidence which applies to the charge of pikes, after the closest investigation, under the sanction, and by the aid of parliament itself; evidence which, s0 far from estay blishing the fact, would have been a satisfactory answer to almost any testimony b’ which such a fact could have been supported : for in this unparalleled proceeding, the prisoner’s counsel is driven by his duty to dwell upon the detail of the crown’s proofs; because the whole body ofit is the completest answer to the indictment which even a free choice itself could have selected.—It is farther worthy of your attention, that, as far as the evidence proceeds from these plain, natural sources, which the crown was driven te, for the necessary foundation of the proceedings before you, it has been simple,—uniform,— natural, and consistent ; and that whenever a different complexion was to be given to it, it was only through the medium of spies and informers, and of men, independently of their infamous trade, of the most abandoned and profligate characters. 
MR_EVANS 8818 The blood of wholesome kindred is infected.—The tables and beds are surrounded with snares. All the means given by Providence to make life safe and comfortable, are perverted into instruments of terror and torment.—This species of universal subserviency that makes the very servant who waits behind your chair, the arbiter of your life and fortune, has such a tenaency to degrade and abase mankind, and to deprive them of that assured and liberal state ef mind which alone can make us what we ought to be, that I vow to God, I would sooner bring myself to put a man to immediate death for opinions I disliked, and so to get rid of the nan and his opinions at once, than to frethim witha feverish being, tainted with the gaol distemper of a contagious servitude, te keep him above ground, an animated mass of putrefaction, corrupted himself, and corvoptimg all about him. 
MR_EVANS 8821 He was obliged, it seems, to give up his lucrative agreement, be cause he was obliged to attend here as a wit ness. Gentlemen, Mr. Kellerby lives only ia Holborn, and was he obliged to give up a per manent engagement with a tradesman ip born, because he was obliged to be absent st the Old Bailey for five minutes in one sia day? I asked him ifhe had told Mr. White, solicitor for the Treasury, who would not bave been so cruel as to deprive a man of bis breed by keeping him upon attendance which night have been avoided by a particular notice.— The thing spoke for itself—he had never tod Mr. White: but had he ever told Mr. Kelerby ? for how else could he know that his place was inconsistent with his engagement upon this trial? No, he had never told him! —tHow then did he collect that his place was inconsistent with hisduty here? This question never received nal answer.—You a how he dealt with it, and how he stood stammering, not daring to lift ap his countenance in any direction,—confused,—disconcerted,— and confounded. 
MR_EVANS 8823 I understs that this same gentleman has carried his sv tem of spying to sucha pitch as to practic & since this unfortunate man has beca standing a prisoner before you, proffering himself, a 2 friend, to the committee preparing his defeore that he might discover to the crown the me terials by which he meant to defend his life. —I state this only from report, and 1 hope God I am mistaken ; for humen natare star's back appalled from such atrocity, and shrinks and trembles at the very statement of it— But as to the pesiury of this miscreant, it will appear palpable beyond all question, and he shall answer for it in due seayen. He tell you he attended at Chalk Farm; and that there, forsooth, amongst about seven of e thousand pcople, he saw two or pe et with knives : he might, I should have seen many more, 28 hardly any man goes witbout a knife of some sort in his pocket.— He asked, however, it seems, where they got these knives, and was directed to Green, a hair-dresser, who deals besides in cutlery; 
MR_EVANS 8826 This answer was sworn to by the wretch, to give you the idea that Green, who had the knives to sell, was conscious that he kept them for an illegal and wicked purpose, that they were not to be sold in public. The door, he says, being a-jar, the man de sired him to speak low, from whence he would have you understand that it was because this aristocratic wife was within hearing.—This, gentlemen, is the testimony of Groves, and reen himself is called as the next witness ; and called by whom? Not by me—I know nothing of him, he is the crown’s own witness. —He is called to confirm Grove’s evidence ; but xot being a spy, he declared solemnly upon his oath, and I can confirm his evidence by several respectable people, that the knives in question lie constantly, and lay then, in his open shop-window, in what is called the show where cutlers, like other tradesmen, exes their ware to publ view; and that the ives differ in nothing from others publicly sold in the Strand, ant every other street in London; that he bespoke them from a rider, who came round for orders in the usual way ; 
MR_EVANS 8829 I ree collect it to the boneur of my friend, Mr. Law, who conducted it for the crewn, who, knowing that there were persons whose passions were agitated upon these subjects at that moment, and that many persons had enrolled themselves in societies to resist conspiracies against the government, behaved in a Most manly and honourable manner, ina manner, indeed, which the public ought te know, and which I hope it never will forget : he would not even put me upon my challenges to such persons, but withdrew them from the panel ; and when he saw the complexion of the affair, from the contradiction of the infamous witness whose testimony supported it, he honourably gave up the cause. Gentlemen, the evidence of Lynam does not require the same contradiction which fell upon Me. Groves, because it destroys itself by its own intrinsic inconsistency, I could not, indeed, if it were to save my life, undertake to state it to you.—It lasted, I think, about six or seven hours, but I have marked under different parts of it, passages so grossly contradictory, matter so impossible, so inconsistent with any course of conduct, that it will be sufficient to bring these parts to your view, to destroy all the rest. But let us first examine in what manner this matter, such as it is, was recorded.—He professed to speak from Notes, yet I observed him frequently looking up to the ceiling whilst he was speaking, when I said to him, Are you now speaking from a note? Have you got any note of what you are now saying? he answered; Ob no, this is from recullection—Good God Almighty! recollection mixing itself with notes in a case of high treason : He did not even take down the words —nay. to do the magn i justice, he did not even affect to have taken the words, but only the substance, as he himself expressed it—O EXCELLENT EVIDENCE !— THE SUBSTANCE OF WORDS TAKEN DOWN BY & SPY, AND SUPPLIED, WHEN DEFECTIVE, BY HIS memory. But I must not call hima spy for it seems he took them bond fide as a delegate, and yet bond fide as an informer; what a happy combination of fidelity ! faithful to serve, and faithful to betray, correct to record for the business of the society, and cor-to expect that a great city might be drownel rect to dissolve and to punish it !—What after all do the notes amount'to? I will advert to the parts I alluded to—they were, it seems, to go to Frith-street, to sign the Declaration of the Friends of the Liberty of the Press, which lay. there already signed by between twenty and thirty members of the House of Commons, and many other respectable and opulent men, and then they were to begin civil confasion, and the king’s head and Mr. Pitt's were to be placed on Temple- bar.—Immediately after whieh we find them resolving unanimously to thank Mr. Wharton: for his speech to support the glorious Revolution of 1688, which supports the very throne that was to be destroyed! which same speech they were to circulate in thousands for the use of the societies throughout the kingdom. —Such incoherent, impossible matter, proceeding from such a source, is unworthy of all farther concern. 5 Thus driven out of every thing which re lates to arms, and from every other matter which can possibly attach upon life, they “have recourse to an expedient, which, I declare, fills my mind with horror and terror: it is this—The Corresponding Society had (you recollect), two years before, sent delegates to Scotland, with specific instructions, peaceably to pursue a parliamentary reform; when the convention: which they were sent to was dis‘persed, they sent no others—for they were arrested when only considering of the propriety of another convention. It happened that Mr. Hardy was the secretary during the riod of these Scotch proceedings, and the letters consequently written by tim, during that period, were all official letters froma -’ body circulated by him in pointofform. When the proposition took place for calling a second convention, Mr. Hardy continued to be secretary, and in that character, signed the circular letter read in the evidence for the crown, ‘which sprees to have found its way, in the course of circulation, into Scortanp. This single circumstance has been admitted as the foundation of receiving in evidence against the prisoner, a long transaction imputed to one Watt, at Edinburgh, whose very existence was unknown to Hardy.—This Watt had been employed by government as a spy, but at last caught a Tartar in his spyship; for, in endeavouring to urge innocent men to 8 project, which never entered into their imaginations, he was obliged to show himself ready to do what he recommended to others ; “and the tables being turned upon him, he “was hanged by his employers. —This man Watt read from a paper designs to be accomplished, but which he never intended to attempt, and the success of which he knew to be visionary.—To suppose that Great Britain could have been destreyed by such arebel as Watt, would be, as Dr. Johnson says, to expect that a great city might be drowned by the overflowing of its kennels. But whatever might be the peril of Watt’s conspiracy, what had Hardy to do with it? The peopk with Watt were five or six persons, w unknown to Hardy, and not members of sny society of which Mr. Hardy was a member; I vow to God, therefore, that I cannot expres what I feel, when I'am: obliged to state the evidence by which he is zpuget to be affected. —A letter, viz. the circular letter signed by Hardy for calling another convention, & shown to George Ross, who says he received it fromr one Stock, who belonged to 2 society which met in Nicholson-street, in Edinburg, and that he sent it to Perth, Strathaves, Paisley, and other places im Scotland; st the single unconnected evidence of iii es lic letter, finding its way into Scotland, is made the foundation of letting in the whok evidence, which hanged Watt, against Hardy. who never knew bim.—Government h: 
MR_EVANS 8831  M‘Ewsa says, that Watt read from a paper to 8 cea mittee of six or seven people, of whith be, the witness, was a member, that gentlemen, residing in the country, were not to leave their habitations, under pain of death; tht an attack was to be made in the manner you remember, and that the lord: justice Clert, and the judges, were to be cut off by thee men in bos ram; and then an address wat to be sent to the king, desiring him to dw miss his ministers and to put an end to the war, or that he might expect bad consequences. Wuar 18 atu tars To M2. Harpy? How is it possible to affect mm with any part of this? Hear the sequel, then judge for yourselves.—Mr. Watt sit (i. e. the man who is Benge, said), after reading the paper, that he, Watt, wishedcorrespond with Mr. Hardy in a sate manne, —so that because a ruffian and a whom I never saw or heard of, chooses, athe distance of four hundred miles, to sy, that he wishes to correspond with me, 1 am to be involved in the guilt of his actions! It's not proved, or insinuated, that Mr. Hardy ever saw, or heard of, or knew, that sub men were in being as Watt or Downie: oe is it proved, or asserted, that any letter was in fact, written by either of them to Hardy, or to any other person No such letter bs 
MR_EVANS 8838 I am conscious that I have not adverted to the thousandth part of them; yet I am sinking under fatigue and weakness. I am st this moment scarcely able to stand up whilst I am speaking to you, deprived as I have “been, for nights together, of every thing that deserves the name of rest, repose, or comfort. I, therefore, hasten, whilst yet I may be able, to remind you once again of the great principle into which all I have been saying Sesolves itself. Gentlemen, my whole argument then amounts to no more than this, that before the crime of compassing THe KING's DEATH can be found by you, the jury, whose provinte it is to judge of its existence, it must be believed by you to have existed in point of ‘fact. —Before you can adjudge a Fact, you must believe it—not suspect it—or imagine it, or fancy it,—BUT BELIEVE IT; and it is impossible to impress the human mind with such a reasonable and certain belief, as is necessary to be impressed, before a christian man can adjudge his neighbour to the smallest penalty, much less to the pains of death, without having such evidence as a reasonable mind will accept of, as the infallible test of truth. And what is that evidence ?—Neither more nor less than that which the constitution has established in the courts for the general administration of justice; namely, t the evidence convinces the jury, beyond atl reasonable doubt, that the criminal intention, constituting the crime, existed in the mind of the man upon trial, and was the main spring of his conduct. The rules of evidence, as they are settled by law, and adopted in its general administration, are not to be overruled or tampered with.—They are founded in the charities of religion—in the philosophy of nature—in the truths of history, and in the experience of common life; and whoever ventures rashly to depart from them, let him remember that it will be meted tu him in the same measure, and that both God and man will judge him accurdingly.—These are arguments addressed to your reasons and consciences, not to be shaken in upright minds by any precedent, for no precedents can sanctify injustice; if they could, every human right would long ago have been extinct upon the earth.—If the state trials in bad times are to be searched for precedents, what murders may you not commit; what law of humanity may you not trample upon; what tule of justice may you not violate; and what maxim of wise policy may you not abrogate and confound? If precedents in bad times are to be implicitly followed, why should we have heard any evidence st all? You might have convi without any evibe followed, why should the Lords and Commons have investigated these charges, and the crown have put them into this course of judicial trial? since, without such a trial, and even afler an rieey upon one, they might have attainted all the prisoners by act of parliament; they did so in the case of lord Strafford. There are precedents, therefore, for all such things : but such precedents as could not for a moment survive the times of madness and distraction, which gave them birth, but which, as soon as the spurs of the ae a ee sccasions were blunted, were repealed and| Gentlernen, what we tead of in books makes execrated even by parliaments, which, littlebut a faint impression upon us, coinpared to as I may think of the present, ought not to} what weseepassing under our eyes in the be compared with it: parliaments sitting in| living world.—I remember the people of the darkness of former times,—in the nightanother country, in like manner, contending of freedum,—before the principles of govern-for a renovation of their constitution, somement were developed, and before the consti-timesillegally and Hacslenily but stilldevoted tution became fixed.—The last of these pre-toan honest end; I myse! f saw the people cedents, and all the proceedings uponit, wereof Brabant so contending for the ancient conordered to be taken off the filand burnt, tostitution of the good Duke of Burgundy, the intent that the same might no longer behow was this people dealt by ?—All, who were visible in after ages; an order dictated, noonly contending for their own rights and pridoubt, by a pious tenderness for national ho-vileges, were supposed to be of course disaf nour, and meant as a charitable covering forfected to the Emperor: they were handed the crimes of our fathers.—But it was a sinover to courts constituted for the emergency, against posterity; it was a treason againstas this is, and the Emperor marched his army society,—tor, instead of commanding them tothrough the country till all was peace; but be burnt they should rather have directedsuch peace as there is in Vesuvius, or tna, them to be blazoned in large letters upon thethe very moment before they vomit forth their walls of our courts of justice, that, like thelava, and roll theit conflagrations over the characters decyphered by the prophet of God, devoted habitations of mankind : when the to the Fastern tyrant, they might enlargeFrench approached, the fatal etfects were and blacken in your sights, to terrify yousuddenly seen of a government of constraint from acts of injustice. e and terror; the well-affected were dispirited, In times, when the whole habitable earthand the disaffected inflamed into fury.—At is in a state of change and fluctuation—whenthat thoment the Archduchess fled from Brusdeserts are starting up into civilized empiressels, and the Duke of Saxe-Teschen was sent around you,—and when men, no longer slavesexpress to offer the joyeuse entree so long peto the prejudices of particular countries, muchtitioned for in vain: but the season of concesTess to the abuses of particular governments,Sion was past; the storm blew from ev enlist themselves, like the citizens of an en-quarter, and the throne of Brabant departed lightened world, into whatever communitiesfor ever from the House of Burgundy. Genin which their civil liberties may be best pru-tlemen, I venture to affirm, that, with other tected; it never can be for the advantage ofcouncils, this fatal prelude to the last revoluthis country to prove, that the strict, unex-tion in that country, might have been averted, tended letter of her laws, is no security to itsIf the Emperor had been advised to make the inhabitants.—Op the contrary, when so dan-concessions of justice and affection to his peogerous a lure is every where holding out to ple, they would have risen in a mass to main emigration, it will be found to be the wisesttain their prince's authority, interwoven with policy of Great Britain to set up her happytheir own liberties; and the French, the constitution,—the strict letter of her guardiangiants of modern times, would, like the giants Jaws, and the proud condition of equal free-of antiquity, have been trampled in the mire dom, which her highest and her lowest sub-of their own ambition. In the same manner jects ought alike to enjoy; it will be hera far more aplenied and important crown wisest pulicy to set up these first of humanpassed away from his Majesty’s illustrious blessings against those charms of change andbrows : TnE IMPERIAL CROWN OP AMERICA. Dovelty which the varying condition of the—The people of that country too, for & world is hourly displaying, and which mayseason, contended as subjects, and often wi deeply affect the population and prosperity ofirregularity and turbulence, for what they felt our cuuntry —In times, when the subordina-to be their rights: and, O gentlemen! that tion to authority is said to be every where butthe inspiring and immortal eloquence of that too little felt, it will be found to be the wisestman, whose name I have so often mentioned, policy of Great Britain, to instil into the go-had then been heard with effect?— what was verncd an almost superstitious reverence forhis language to this country when she sought the strict security of the laws; which, fromto lay burdens on America,—not to support their equality of principle, beget no jealousiesthe dignity of the Crown, ‘or for the increase or discuntent; which, from their equal ad-of national revenue, ‘but to raise a fund for ministration, can seldom work injustice ; andthe purpose of corruption; a fund for mainwhich, frum the reverence growing out oftaining those tribes of hireling is arc their mildness and antiquity, acquire a stabi-which Mr. Tooke so well contrasted with the lity in the habits and affections of men, far eyond the force of civil obligation : whercas severe penalties, and arbitrary constructions of laws intended for security, lay the foundations of alienation from every-human government, an pave been the ve of all the cala-ities that have come, and are coming upon the earth, mere hereditary nobility of England !—Th America would not bear this imposition, ‘would have borne any useful or constitutional burden to support the parent state.—“ Por that service, for all service, said Mr. Burke, “whether of reveende, ttade, or envke trust is in her interest in the. Byitish con tion. My hold of the colonies is in the close affection which grows from common names, from kindred blood, from similar privileges, and equal protection. These are ties which, though light: as air, ate as strong as links of iron. Let the colonies always keep the idea of: their civil rights associated with your government, they will cling and grapple to you, and no force under heaven will be of power to tear them trom their allegiance. But let it be once understood, that your government may be one thing, and their privileges another; that these two things may exist without any mutual relation; the cement is gone; the cohesion is loosened; and every thing hastens to decay and dissolution. As long as you have the wisdom to keep the sovereign authority of this country as the sanctuary of liberty, the sacred temple consecrated to our common faith, wherever the chosen race and sons of England worship freedom, they will turn their faces toward you. The more they multiply, the more friends you will have; the more ardently they love liberty, the more perfect will be their obedience. Slavery they can have any where. It is a weed that grows in every soil. They may have it from Spain, they may have it from Prussia. But until you become lost to all feeling of your true interest and your natural dignity, freedom they can have from none but you. This is the commodity of price, of which you have the monopoly. This is the true act of navigation, which binds to you the commerce of the colonies, and through them secures to you the wealth of the warld. Is it not the same virtue which does every thing for us here in England? Do you imagine then, that it is the land-tax act which raises your revenue? that it is the annual vote in the Committee of Supply, which gives you your army? or that it is the Mutiny Bill which inspires it with bravery and discipline? Neo! surely no! It is the love of the people; it is their attachment to their government, from the sense of the deep stake they have in such a: glorious institution, which gives you our army and your navy, and infuses into h that liberal obedience, without which your army would be a base rabble, and your navy nothing but rotten timber. Gentlemen, to conchude. My fervent wish is, that we may not conjure up a spirit to destroy ourselves, nor set the Gemnle here of what in another country we deplore. Let us cherish the old and venerable laws of our forefathers. Let our judicial administration be strict and pure; and let the Jury of the land preserve the life of a fellow-subject, who only asks it from them upon the same terms under which they hold their own lives, and all that is dear to them and their posterity for ever. Let me repeat the wish with whichbegan my address to you, and which proceeds from: the very bottom of my heart ; may it please God, who is the Author of all mercies to mankind, whose providence, I am persuaded, guides and superintends the transactions of the world, and whose guardian spirit has for ever hovered over this prosperous island, to direct and fortify your Pe at I am aware I have not acquitted myself to the unfortunate man, who has put his trust in me, in the manner I could have wished ; yet I am unable to proceed any farther; exhausted in spirit and in strength, but confident in the expectation of justice.—There is one thing more, however, that (if I can) I must state to you, namely, that I will show, by as many witnesses, as it may be found necessary or convenient fur you to hear upon the subject, that the views of the societies were what I have alleged them to be; that whatever irregularities or indiscretions they might have committed, their purposes were honest ; and that Mr. Hardy’s, above all other men, can: be established to have been so. I have, ine deed, an Hunourable Gentleman (Mr. Francis) in my eye, at this moment, to be called hereafter as a witness, who being desirous in his place, as a member of Parliament, to promote an inquiry into the seditious practices complained of, Mr. Hardy offered himself voluntarily to come turward, proffered a sight of all the papers, which were afterwards seized in his custody, and tendered every possible assistance to give satisfaction to the laws of his country, if found to be offended. I will show likewise his character to be religious, temerate, humane, and moderate, and his univ form conduct all that can belong to a good subject, and an honest man.—When you have heard this evidence, it will, beyond all doubt, confirm you in coming to the conclusion which, at such great length (for which I entreat your pardon), I have been eadeavouring to support. 
MR_EVANS 8840 I was. 
MR_EVANS 8842 Yes; No. 2. 
MR_EVANS 8844 Very regularly. Ido not know that I missed one night ing near two years; itis nearly two years since I belonged to it. 
MR_EVANS 8846 No; two years since I first belonged to it, to the presenttime. I ceased to be a member of it when Mr. Hardy was taken up 
MR_EVANS 8848 It was very rarely that he was absent. 
MR_EVANS 8850 Perfectly well; Ihave seen bim four, five, or six times a week. I hardly ever missed a Sunday, but I called upon him, either in the course of the day, or in theevening. 
MR_EVANS 8852 A remarkably peaceable disposition. 
MR_EVANS 8854 Very much 80; there was an instance of it in the society, at the time we were dispersed from the publichouses ; he desired particularly, when we got to a private house, that no member would even bring a stick with him. 
MR_EVANS 8856 Remarkably so. 
MR_EVANS 8858 A parliamentary reform; nothing else that I ever heard. 
MR_EVANS 8860 In’ the House of Commons. 
MR_EVANS 8867 I am not afraid of answering to any thing that I know. 
MR_EVANS 8870 Nothing else. 
MR_EVANS 8872 None. 
MR_EVANS 8874 No; God forbid. 
MR_EVANS 8876 No. 
MR_EVANS 8882 None. Z 
MR_EVANS 8884 None. 
MR_EVANS 8886 Frequently. 
MR_EVANS 8888 I think I should, for curiosity often led me to ask him a number of questions. 
MR_EVANS 8890 No; certainly not. 
MR_EVANS 8903 No. 
MR_EVANS 8905 No; never. 
MR_EVANS 8907 Never. 
