OLIVER 9669 I did not. 
OLIVER 9671 I never did. 
OLIVER 9673 Icannot charge my memory that I ever saw it, I do not recollect the contents of it; I trouble my head very little about politics. 
OLIVER 9676 No; I did not. 
OLIVER 9678 I do not know, nor never did know, that Mr. Hardy did favour those resolutions, or that he published any thing of the kind. As I was going to observe, I have but very little time to meddle with those matters; when I can call upon any person that is afflicted, or any poor person, or any one to do them any good, I am always ready to do it; but I have four sermons to preach in a week, and as I make them myself, I have very little spare time. 
OLIVER 9680 I have seen it, but never read it through. 
OLIVER 9682 I do not know any such thing. 
OLIVER 9684 TI have heard of sucha name, butIdo not know the gentleman, 
OLIVER 9686 Once upon a time, I think, Mr. Hardy mentioned his name, but I do not know that he said he had a correspondence with him, 
OLIVER 9689 I think Mr. Hardy asked me if I knew such a gentleman, and that he was a worthy good man, or to that purpose. 
OLIVER 9691 By no means in the world. 
OLIVER 9693 No. 
OLIVER 9695 No. 
OLIVER 9697 No, nor any other. 
OLIVER 9699 The chief I know of him has been his conversation touching the best things; sometimes he has spoken of politics and parliamentary reform, and that he was a well-wisher to it. 
OLIVER 9701 Part of it. 
OLIVER 9703 No. 
OLIVER 9705 I do not know how much, but as a minister may call upon him; it is reasonable to expect they will put confidence in men of our description, when men of character and probity. 
OLIVER 9707 He did not; I only came to sak as to what I know about Mr. Hardy's character. 
OLIVER 9709 I have acted as secretary to the committee of that society. 
OLIVER 9711 Yes. 
OLIVER 9713 Very frequently. 
OLIVER 9715 I have seen him many years ago, but never had occasion to speak to him til] within something less than two years ; about December, 1792. 
OLIVER 9717 The London Corresponding Society sent a letter to the Society of the Friends of the People; when the letter was answered I carried the answer myself to Mr. Hardy’s house in Piccadilly, and delivered it to him, and from that time in passing Piccadilly frequently, I have called in at his shop, merely to converse with him, and to know what news there was. 
OLIVER 9719 Very frequently. 
OLIVER 9721 He always told me the sole object of the society was, a reform in the representation in the House of Commons. 
OLIVER 9728 I always understood from him, that he thought the best means were to inform the people of the bad state of the representation, and so to gain a number of members to the society, that they might get a great number of signatures to a petition to ie con by which means a reform might e obtained. 
OLIVER 9730 S ince that time, till the time that he was taken up, I was in the habit of calling on him perhaps once, twice, or more times in a week ; it was very uncertain ; prineipally from curiosity I used to call at his house, and have conversation with him generally about his society, and the other societies that his society were in correspondence with, about what they were doing respecting a reform in parliament ; that always made the basis of our conversation. 
OLIVER 9732 I have not a doubt he did; we talked very freely about a reform and the best means of producing it, and in one point he and I never could agree; he said the duke of Richmond's plan would be the plan at last—I said I did not think it was the best plan; that was the only point we disagreed upon. 
OLIVER 9737 You onght to inquire to be sure, first of all, whether he knows any thing of a osed convention, and whether he had any opportunity of knowing what the prisoner's sentiments were respecting that convention. 
OLIVER 9739 There is one thing in pert cular I think it my duty to mention with regard to whether he was likely to confide in me, or tell me his mind. 
OLIVER 9741  There was one particular occasion. 
OLIVER 9744 I do not exactly remember that I had; but I have no doubt that I had. 
OLIVER 9746 From others and from my own observation, I have always thought him a very simple man in his manners; of a very inoffensive, peaceable conduct, and the last man I should have thought that would have been guilty of any violent conduct. 
OLIVER 9748 I have always heard him say he wished it to be brought about by peaceable means; I never heard bim mention violent means in my life—quite the reverse. 
