SCOTT 1043 It was found among the papers of William Skirving, secretary to the convention at Edinburgh. 
SCOTT 1049 It was found among Skirving’s papers. 
SCOTT 1051 I did not. 
SCOTT 1053 Lhe question was put in such a way that I thought I was bound to give a direct answer, I will explain the circumstance. On the ath of December, the proceedings of the convention had attracted the notice of those in Edinburgh who had the charge of the police— 
SCOTT 1082 Yes, both these were found at the same time. 
SCOTT 1093 These papers were found in the same way, and at the same time. 
SCOTT 1094 Alexander Grant said he believed the signatures to be the prisoner's hand-writing. 
SCOTT 1095 “ London, Nov. 8, 1793. “ Fellow Citizens; I duly received your favour of the 4th instant, and laid it before the committee of delegates last night, who were anxiously waiting for intelligence fromEdinburgh, and were well satisfied with the agreeable account of the great number and zeal of the friends of freedom in Scotland. That part of your letter which mentions your visiting different towns in Scotland, for the purpose of promoting the cause, they were leased with the idea, but they thought that it could not be put in practice on account of the necessary supplies, which come in but very sluwly. It is to be mentioned in the different divisions. We have elected J. Baxter (by ballot) as chairman of the committee for the remainder of the quarter. We have also appointed a committee of constitution, Separate from the committee of delegates; one member is chosen from each division, to meet on this night for the first time, and to be totally unconnected with the committee of delegates. We still increase in number, and the address to the king to put an end to the war is ordered to be advertised to receive signatures in the Courier, Chronicle, Eyres’s Sunday Gazette; afterwards by hand-bills, &c. We have opened a correspondence with a new society at Bristol. I have to inform you of the wish of the society that you would favour them with the number of delegates in the convention, and the number from England also, and how the civil and military power relishes your meeting; and that you would send al a report from the convention as might appear in the newspapers in London. Send me an Edinburgh Gazetteer when there is any thing in it of importance. I would have sent you a Courier, but they informed me that they sent several to the coffee- houses and taverns in Edinburgh; for that reason, I thought it unnecessary. I hope to have more time to write to you more fully next time. As, sir Joseph Murray says, the post is just going off, no more at present from “ Thomas Harpy, secretary. 
SCOTT 1096 Addressed ofi the back : 
SCOTT 1097 “ Mr. Margarot and Mr. Gerrald, delegates from London , 
SCOTT 1098 “ London, Nov. 15, 1793. “ Fellow Citizens, I received your official Jetters of the 7th and 12th, and Maurice Margarot’s private letter of the 11th, all in due course. At the committee’ of delegates last night, after hearing the report of the different delegates — the rapid influx of New members — there was several places mentioned in different situations in town, both in public and private houses, for new divisions of the London Corresponding Society to meet atsome have already taken place, others will next week
SCOTT 1099 Afterwards, the correspondence was taken into consideration, Your official letter was read, and much approved of, and copies of jt taken for the use of the different divisions. It seems to be the gencral wish of the different divisions of the society for you to continue as long as you can be of real use to the cause ; but it wholly depends upon the thing necessary, money. We have hit upon an exe pedient, which we mean to put in practice in two or three days, that promises fair to bring in a considerable revenue. I shall inform you of it in my next. Those whom you gave directions to call upon has fallen far short of that liberality which youexpected. Thecommittee last night gave me orders to transmit to you twelve guineas; I enclose you a draft on sir William Forbes, and Co. for that sum. Next week I hope to be able tosend you more. There was another report of Mr. Frost being’ to be pilloried on last Tuesday and Wednesday; but it happened that, on Wednesday, a Charles Leslie stood in the pillory at Charing-cross for a crime shocking to mention, Mr. Frost is not very well at present. The Constitutional Society have adjourned for a month from last Tuesday. The reason why Mr. Yorke did not go from that society was, that he wrote a letter to them, informin them that he would not go unless they “old pay him the whole of the money down. I have only given you a summary account of our proceedings; but you know how I am situated both in the day and in the evenings, that I cannot command a quarter of an hour to myself; therefore I hope you will excuse me for being so laconic. I have made the situation of Mr. Muir as public as I could; it throws a damp upon the spirits of every friend to humanity who hears of his cruel treatment. I remain your fellow-labourer in the good cause. 
SCOTT 1100 (Signed) “ Thomas Hacpy, secretary. 
SCOTT 1101 “ Citizen Walker desires me to request of citizen Gerrald to favour him with a letter. 
SCOTT 1102 “ P. 8. Friend Margarot, I have not yet been able to do your business, which you left for me to execute before you left London. I have not been able to see that gentleman which you mentioned in your last, nor do I expect that I will these three weeks. 
SCOTT 1103 Addressed on the back : “Citizen Margarot and Citizen Gerrald, Delegates. London, Nov. 22, 1793. “ Fellow-Citizens, I duly received your 
SCOTT 1104 Jetters of the 12th and 28th instant, which I laid before the committee last night. After reading and deliberating upon them maturely, they resolved that you should continue at your post till you hear from me officially after the next meeting of the general committee of delegates; by that time we may form some idea what success we are likely to meet with from the advertisement and circular letter. We entertained high hopes of beSng liberally assisted by the friends of freedom. A circular letter was ordered to be drawn up, to be sent to the different societies in England with whom we correspond, in‘viting them to send delegates to the convention in Scotland, to promote a reform in pardiament. A standing committee of five is appointed to answer the correspondence during your mission inScotland. Your objection ’ to forming a new constitution in your absence was not by them reckoned valid: it is very possible that it will not be accepted before your return; for it will be maturcly investigated by all the divisions of the society before at is fully agreed to: besides, it cannot affect you in your present mission, for you well now that we are not very fond of ex post facto law, You will herewith receive a draught for 12. 12s. Od. on sir William Forbes and Uo. The Englishman’s Rights I avill send you a few, with a few other tracts. We have not near enough fur the orders we have from the country, and our own addresses are nearly out of print. I shall direct them to the person to whom I address your letters. There 1s no news in town of importance from the continent
SCOTT 1105 I am, for the society, (Signed) homas Harpy, secretary, “ Mr. Frost is very ill. : Addressed on the back : 
SCOTT 1106 “ Maurice Margarot, Joseph Gerrald, Delegates. London, Nov. 29th, 1798. 
SCOTT 1107 “ Citizens, Iam desired by the general commitee to make you acquainted with their determination relative to your stay in ScotJand, which is, that you are both toremain at your post until the convention adjourns for the present season: then both to return to England with all possible expedition. 
SCOTT 1108 “ The 122. 12s, Od. which I transmitted on the 22nd instant by the order of the committee to you, am afraid has miscarried, otherways doubt not you would have acknowledged the receipt ; and not having received any fetters since the date of the 20th instant, are also concerned for fear they should have been intercepted. We are highly pleased with the proposed union with our northern brethren, and beg you will use every exertion in your power to establish that desirable union wpon a firm and permanent basis. it gives us great pleasure and encouragement to hear that the spirit of liberty is so flourishing in the north, and are happy to inform you that the same noble spirit is making a rapid: proess in the south. We are sorry to hear of e indisposition of citizen Gerrald, and ‘ho it is not of that violent nature as to preci him from attending the duties of his mission. —Yours in behalf of the society, (Signed) “ Thomas Harpy, secretary. 
SCOTT 1109 “ P.S. We have not had any account of the arrival of Mr. Muir, although we have been making every inquiry in our power. 
SCOTT 1110 Addressed on the back: “ Maurice Margarot, and Joseph Gerrald, Delegates. 
SCOTT 1118 We remain, most sincerely, your fellow-labourers in the cause of reform, “ Josepa GeRRaLp, delegate. 
SCOTT 1123 They were. 
SCOTT 1146 Adieu, yours, M. M. “ Edinburgh, December 19, 1793. 
SCOTT 1148 Again interrupted, and likely to lose the post, unless I dispatch this immediately. Believe me fellow citizens, yours unto death, “ Maurice Marcanor. 
SCOTT 1150 I have sent them news regularly, but have not received a single letter from them. Send them some fresh mode of directing to me, or else let them send their letters to you first—Pray question Sinclair 
SCOTT 1163 Yes. 
SCOTT 1165 I believe it was the 20th of February last. 
SCOTT 1167 Thelwall brought me the manuscript. 3 
SCOTT 1169 Yes, there was, but I do not recollect who. 
SCOTT 1171 No. 
SCOTT 1173 Hedesired me to print o} 
SCOTT 1190 H e told mc to print off two thousand and then stop. 
SCOTT 1197  Not that day. 
SCOTT 1199 Iprinted two hundred of them that day, and carried them to the Globe tavern; when I went to the Globe tavern I met Mr. Hardy on the stairs. 
SCOTT 1201 Yes. 
SCOTT 1203 Yes. 
SCOTT 1205 I was not at that meeting. 
SCOTT 1207 Not some time. 
SCOTT 1209 Yes. 
SCOTT 1212 I told him I had brought two hundred copie of the resolutions; he desired me to take them back again, and not distribute one of them; accordingly I went home with them, and returned again to the Globe tavern to dinner. 
SCOTT 1214 I am not sure to the month. 
SCOTT 1216 The day of the meeting. 
SCOTT 1218 It was, I believe, between one and two o'clock. 
SCOTT 1220 Between four and five. 
SCOTT 1222 Yes. 
SCOTT 1224 At pretty nigh six o'clock. 
SCOTT 1226 No, I was not. 
SCOTT 1228 I had the copy on the am and delivered the two hundred on the 20th. 
SCOTT 1230 Yes. 
SCOTT 1232 Yes, I see now that it was January. 
SCOTT 1234 None. 
SCOTT 1236 A public dinner, every one paid for- his ticket. 
SCOTT 1238 I am not very sure, I think Mr. ‘Thelwall was in the chair, but I am not sure. 
SCOTT 1240 Yes, he was. 
SCOTT 1242 No, F did not. 
SCOTT 1244 Somebody was sent for them to my house. 
SCOTT 1246 Frum the Globe tavern. 
SCOTT 1248 Yes. 
SCOTT 1250 They were. 
SCOTT 1252 I saw only one of them. 
SCOTT 1255 I dare say there were about three hundred or thereabouts, as near. as I could guess. 
SCOTT 1257 Till ten o'clock, or thereabouts. 
SCOTT 1259 Yes. 
SCOTT 1261 I cannot be particular to the time, T printed in the course of that week, I believe, a thousand more. 
SCOTT 1263 Mr. Thelwall’s order was to print two thousand; I completed the two thousand according to his original order. 
SCOTT 1265 I carried a good many of them to Mr. Hardy’s. 
SCOTT 1267 People came for some now and then. 
SCOTT 1269 Some of the members of the London Corresponding Society came for them. 
SCOTT 1271 Yes, some asked for a dozen, or half a dozen or so, and I delivered them. 
SCOTT 1275 TI believe Mr. Hardy gave me orders to go on with them till I should be desired to stop. 
SCOTT 1277 I was desired to stop, I believe, in the month of March. 
SCOTT 1279 I fia now and then occasionally as they were wanted. 
SCOTT 1281 Eight thousand. 
SCOTT 1283 They are not paid for yet. 
SCOTT 1285 No. 
SCOTT 1287 No, I had not, no farther than I put them down to the credit of the society. 
SCOTT 1289 He did not desire me; but he, as treasurer, was to receive the moncy, and see the debts of the society aid. Who was ?— Mr. Hardy. Did you make the society debtor for them? Yes, I did. Have you printed upon other occasions for the society ?—I have. Who paid you?—Mr. Hardy. 
SCOTT 1343 Not much, I have only spoke to him two or three times, 
SCOTT 1346 I am not sure of that—I cannot prove tliat. 
SCOTT 1348 Yes; I have. 
SCOTT 1350 I saw him there. 
SCOTT 1352 Yes. 
SCOTT 1354 I cannot say whether he was a member or not. 
SCOTT 1356 I do not know, 
SCOTT 1358 There might be many that were not. 
SCOTT 1360 It was. 
SCOTT 1362 Relative to the latter part of the toasts and sentiments printed at the back of that paper. 
SCOTT 1364 I told him that I thought there were some hard words in some of the resolutions and toasts. He said, No; it was all constitutional, and there was no danger could arise from it. 
SCOTT 1366 It was the 21st, I believe, which happened on Tuesday. 
SCOTT 1368 It was either the 2ist or the 2¢nd. 
SCOTT 1370  No.; I never saw it. 
SCOTT 1372 There might be. 
SCOTT 1374 You have positively said to the contrary ; endeavour to recollect if there were not. 
SCOTT 1376 Yes ; they do. 
SCOTT 1378 There were tickets, I understand, to be given at the bar to any body that chose to call for them, or pay for them. 
SCOTT 1380 Yes. 
SCOTT 1383 Yes., Are you acquainted with his manner of writing ?—Yes. 
SCOTT 1385 I believe the signature to be his. 
SCOTT 1423 Suppose, for instance, any man of al}, that society, should say an intemperate, an absurd, or a criminal thing: why now, for instance, suppose a man takes the head off a pot of porter, and says, I should like to cut off the heads of kings, should I not know what the context was? must I not know what kings they were speaking of, whether speaking of those kings which he might think allied toe gether for a purpose destructive to the principles of justice end humanity, or whether he meant any thing that could lead even to an idea of the king of Great-Britain ? 
SCOTT 1446 The solicitor general of that time says, “It is necessary, therefore, by general evidence, to show that there have been such plots and conspiracies as the Commons assert, and then to affect the noble lord at the bar, by proper evidence, with being concerned in these plots. It was so, he says, in lord Stafford’s case, and at the “ trials at law of the persons accused of having been in the same plot. The same method was allowed as proper, and liable to no just objection, in many trials after the revolution. 
SCOTT 1448 Mr. Murray proceeded in his relation of the conspiracy; and one part of the evidence which Re then gave was, that lord Traquair had informed him, that a Mr. Drummond had carried over to Paris a memorial, and a list of all the gentlemen in Scotland, who would support the Pretender; that he had conversed with Drummond; that Drummond was then in Edinburgh, and prosed that he should have a meeting with im ; tbat he had a meeting with Drummon who repeated much the same thing, and sai he had been extremely well received by the cardinal; that is cardinal Fleury.—Several other parts of his evidence were to the same tendency.—What was this but giving evidence of conversations between twoconspiratorsupon thesubject of the plot, for the purpose of showing what was the nature, tendency, and objects of the plot, and what were the views of the several persons who were concerned in it? 
SCOTT 1450 It is evidence, yuo animo, Mr. Martin acted. I do not mean to say, it is direct evidence, quo animo, Mr. Hardy acted, but it is the nature of all plots that this sort of evidence should be given; several persons are concerned; they are brought into one engage ment; some of them may certainly have views less culpable than others, but still, for the purpose of a jury determining what is the guilt of the particular person charged, the views, the imtentions, declared by conversation, as well as otherwise, ofthe several persons concerned in the plot, and especially when it happens to be conversations between two of the persons concerned in the plot, which, with submission, a letter from one of the persons engaged in it, to another of those persons is, then I submit, that it is a matter which may fairly and properly be given in evidence, consistent with the determination your lordships have made, and upon the very foundation, that it is what passes between persons engaged in a conspiracy, while the conspiracy is in its process towards that conclusion, which we submit the conspirators had in view. 
SCOTT 1456  Now the charge against the prisoner is the compassing the king’s death, by means of a conspiracy, to overturn the constituted authorities of the state, and the government of the country, under. colour of a professed design only to make a reform in parliamentary representation, and to correct abuses in one’ branch of the legislature; a design which, pursued by innocent and proper means, might possibly be either wholly innocent, oramount to a guilt infinitely less than that which is charged by this indictment; but when such a conspiracy as is imputed to the prisoner, is alleged to be carried on under colour of such a pretext, many of the acts of those conspirators must, in their nature, be equivocal, and admit of different constructions.—How are these constructions to be colected,—how is that ambiguity to be removed,—but by views of the conduct and declarations of the persons alleged to be in the conspiracy itself !—It is upon that ground, and that alune, that this is submitted to the Court as the statement of the proceedings at a meeting, by one conspirator to another conspirator, implicated in the general design, but not present at that meeting.—It seems to me, that there is no kind of evidence that can tend more directly to develope the real intention of the parties in the transaction, than that species of evidence which is now offered.—I do not mean to contend, that the letter, when read, which I have cast my eye over, will itself go any great length in effectuating that purpose, but the nature of the evidence is such as may be important, fee s, in other instances, much more so than the present; and the principle is extensive in its application, not only to the trials upon the present occasion, but those that may hereafter occur in this country, and at times when this trial may become a precedent to posterity. 
SCOTT 1461 I shall, in doing it, avoid two things 3 
SCOTT 1464 Against whom is the testimony offered ?—What is the nature of it?—To what purpose is it adduced? 
SCOTT 1466 The consequence I conceive most clearly to be this, that though it is an indictment for high treason, yet, because that high treason is to be carried into execution by the means ofa conspiracy, that all the evidence ‘which will, by law, be admissible upon the trial of a minor conspiracy, a conspiracy not treasonable, will be admissible likewise upon the present inquiry. 
SCOTT 1469 We have got thus far, that the prisoner at the bar wasengaged in a conspiracy, together with Martin and Margarot—they two corresponded by , letter—they two conversed, in writing, as has much of the purport as is necessar: 
SCOTT 1472 We contend it is to overturn the government, and depose the king, whereby it isobvious, to any common understanding, that the life of the king is in danger.—Now I contend, therefore, with the utmost deference to the Court, that this letter is competent evidence—no matter how far it extends, or how short it goes—if it goes any step atall; but I confess that I feel, and I am sanguine enough to state, that: goes pointedly, importantly, and directly to the matter of high treason charged in the indictment.—I said I would not repeat a syllable that had been urged by the gentlemen before me, but I desire to be understood, that my mind goes with them entirely, and accedes to every part of their arguments. 
SCOTT 1481 I apprehend my friend may state, that there is an expression personally reflectin, upon the king ; but, in order to argue the admissibility of any piece of evidence, it is not to be reall by the counsel for the crown inthe hearing of the jury; because if, after the counsel has read it, in the hearing of the jury, the Court say it is not admissible evidence against the prisoner, it may lead to affect the prisoner, because it may affect the minds of the jury, in a manner inconsistent with the nature of the testimony received on the trial. lam now, I understand, in possession of your lordships judgment upon this point. 
SCOTT 1494 In considering whether any written evidence, in general, is admissible, I will consider, first, what is the relation between the party who wrote this letter, the person to whom it is written, aud the party to be affected by it, —There has been evidence to prove, that there existed in the members of this society, a conspiracy to subvert the government; thea I submit to your lordships, that, having laid that ground, it isin the ordinary course of proceeding to give evidence of the detached acts of any one individual, conducing to the general end and purpuse to be effected by the general conspiracy. 
SCOTT 1496 I think it is peculiarly applicable to that overt-act which states that they composed and wrote, and caused to be composed and written, divers books, pamphlets, letters, &c. containing incitements, encouragements, and exhortations, for the purpose of accomplishing this object of holding a convention, for the purpose of deposing and ultimately procuring the death of his majesty. Now is this letter in furtherance of that object? it contains the common incitementsand exhortations of this sort; it encourages him to persevere, and states as a ground why he should persevere, that the toms of the society were Increasing ; that their numbers were increasing; and that their prospect of success was increasing. That being stated (for 1am not at liberty to detail the particular contents of the letter), as the subject and object of the to excite the person to whom it was written, , 
SCOTT 1520 Yes. 
SCOTT 1522 Iam. 
SCOTT 1524 I am. 
SCOTT 1526 I do. 
SCOTT 1528 I do. 
SCOTT 1549 and will you stretch forth your necks, like Iambs, to the butcher’s knife, and, like lambs, content yourselves with bleating? Pray let me hear from yousoon ; remember me to Moffatt, Muir, Palmer, and all suffering brethren. 
SCOTT 1560 I found them at Hardy’s house. 
SCOTT 1569 He has the consolation in his own breast, as every honest man will have, when he reflects, that he is not suffering for evil doing, although the enemie of mankind are peaieatng him as an evi doer ; but, according to human appearance, the reign of the beast of civil andecclesiasti wer is almost at an end.—Thanks to the upreme Raler of the universe for his great ness hitherto, and the bright pruspect OT delivered the d deliver twent junds you gave me for his use, into his bund; it vas Ce seasonable.— This moment a friend hag shown me aletter from Muir, informing him, that the convoy has hoisted her Signal for sailing; and I am afraid, by this time, they are gone from Portsmouth: if so, they are without many necessaries that were preparin, for them.—I saw the captain; he appears to be a very good kind of man, and bears an excellent character.—I hope you will excuse me entering into detail further, for I have not another minute to spare.—If any friend yo can trust come to town, I will give him a ral account.—What think you of a convention Farewell. Thomas Harpy. 
SCOTT 1572 You will, therefore, forward your orders to us, when and where the convention is to meet with any other instructions or information you may judge necessary; we shall instruct our delegate, respecting the number and strength of our societies, and are happy to fraternize with you in any thing that may tend to promote the general g We remain yours in the cause of, liberty, for the united societies as above,. 
SCOTT 1579 A good number have formed themselvcs into societies, and meet weekly, admitting none but known friends; and have assumed no name but that of Newspaper-comies; these were in great spirits while the ritish Convention continued to act, but after their suppression, a damp was cast on the whole.—Subscriptions were ready to be sent off the very night they were suppressed, and the Gazetteer stopped, which has since been remitted to London, for the use of the persecuted worthies, Muir and Palmer.—Being charmed with your masterly and bold approbation of the conduct of zor delegates and noble martyrs for truth, Margarot and Gerrald, and find’ your name signed Secretary to the Corresponding Socicty, we wish to copy your example ; and beg, if you think us worth your notice, give us your views and intentions, as soon as convenient, which, I hope, will be a means to stimulate and: increase our numbers. Lest this should not come to you, as I havean uncertain direction, I forbear troubling you more at present, in hopes of being favoured with your future correspondence.— Farewcll, hoping the hydra of tyranny and imposition shall soon fall under the saillesine of truth and reason.—Your’s, with all due respect, &c. “ Mr. Harding, No. 9, or 19, Piccadilly, London. 
SCOTT 1585  This perseverance, however, and these exertions of an individual society, can but little avail, if the societies in the different parts of the kingdom are in themselves disunited, ve do me aid a aesitt is other, eable to the principles of philanthropy ety fraternity which they so warmly profess. Under this idea, we conceive ourselves treated with a degree of incivism, by f bd society not answering our last letters; the reasons may be good.—At present, we are candid enough to confess that the circumstance does not appear to us in the most favourable point of view. Our address, of which we send you a few copies, we find to have a good effect, and is l&kely to beget us the assistance of many friends, while our enemies acknowledge there is something very fair and reasonable in the production. This is an absolute weuny and we have reason to congratulate ourselves on the prospect of success it opens to us. With a mixture of pain and pleasure, we saw an account of your last general meeting. We lament that the strong hand of despotism should so often interfere to prevent the assertion of the rights of the people, while we rejvice in your manly constitutional perseverance, and applaud and approve your resolution of forming another general convention. Our increasing numbers give us every reasonable hope of soon being able more effectually to co-operate -with you; while, for the reasons formerly stated, we cannot yet make a positive promise on that head. We hope for an immediate answer. Favour us with your opiaion of our address, and transmit a sketch of your plan respecting the general convention. “ By order of the committee of delegates appointed by the Bristol Constitutional Soetety. (No signature.] “ Thomas Hardy, No. 9, Piccadilly, London. 
SCOTT 1588 Many of our friends are fully convinced of the necessity, legality and rationality of a convention; but, query, whether the time be expedient ? “ Sames Bacco, chairman. “ T. Saint, secretary., 
SCOTT 1605 Yes. 
SCOTT 1607 Some i son. 
SCOTT 1610 Itis. 
SCOTT 1613 By order of the committee, “ Wiit14M BroomHean, secretary. 
SCOTT 1615  Yes. 
SCOTT 1619 By order of the derlegation, Joun GartLy: 
