SOLICITORGENERAL 1135  Mr. Skirving must be considered as agent to the society, and it is extremely important, as it seems to me. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 1411 My lord, I should have no idea of pressing this, but mercly with a view to similar questions which may arise.. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 1439 I will trouble your lordship with a very few words upon this point, and, I trust, your lordship will be of opinion that it is unquestionably evidence. Certain persons are indicted for endeavouring to procure a Convention to be assembled to subvert the legislature, rule and government, now duly ani happily established in this kingdom, and other overt-acts of the same tendency. Now upon the very Eencivs which has been just stated by Mr. Gibbs, it appears to me that this is evidence. The principle which is stated by Mr. Gibbs is, that that, which is declared by conspirators, whilst in action, is evidence against those who were not presentat the time, as well as against those who were present at the time. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 1441 I am very - litle capable of distingutahing between whatstated and what Mr. Gibbs now says. I take this to be a declaration of conspirators in the progress of their conspiracy, and I take that to be exactly the distinction between this case, and that which your lordships have determined, with respect to which it is my duty to submit to the judgment of the Court. That was a letter addresscd to a person, whom we have not shown to be, in any degree, involved in the conspiracy, to a Mr. Vellam; whereas this is a letter, addressed by Mr. Martin, who is proved to be chairman of the meeting on the 20th of January, to Maurice Margarot, who was the deputy froty the Corresponding Society, at the Convention which was held at Edinburgh; itis, therefore, a conversation, by letter, between two persons who were parties to the conspiracy, if there existed any conspiracy ; for, in all these cases, the first question your lordships and the jury will have to consider, is the existence of a conspiracy, and the object of that conspiracy ; and then, whether the person charged was party to that conspiracy. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 1442 Now for the purpose of showing the existence of a conspiracy, and for the purpose of showing what the views of the conspirators were, bow far they went, conversations of those conspirators totally distinct from the prisoner, have constantly been admitted to be iven in evidence. In the case of my lord Stafford, which was a prosecution, by impeachment in parliament, for high treason, in compassing the death of the king, and proceeding to great length; the evidence that was first given was simply, and only of the general plot, by persons who were capable, as they afterwards proved by their testimony, of bringing that treason specifically home to lord Stafford; they were not examined to that point at first, but were examined simply, and only to the general plot; one thing which may proved in the course of that evidence, with respect to the general plot, I will state to your lordships; it was a discourse between Anderton, Campion, Green, and several other persons, with which lord Stafford had no sort of connexion whatever, in which those persons told the witness, that there would be a great alteration in England ere long; that the king was an heretic, and might be destroyed; that they industriously preached this doctrine, and that the duke of York was with them. Evidence was iven of these conversations. Who were e persons that held these conversations? They were not persons included in the impeachment of lord Stafford, but persons to whom it was imputed that they were in the common and general conspiracy, which was cbarged to exist, for .the purpose of the restoration of the Roman Catholic religion in this country, and for the purpose of deposing the king, and subverting the government of the country. The manner in which serjeant Maynard states the evidence which was to be given, seems to me to be perfectly clear. He says, “ This is a treason of a faction, and of a general party in the nation : it is not this or that lord, but a great pumber; itis not this or that lord that is mentioned in the articles, but the conee is of a great faction. This do we ink, and this makes us so earnest to press the general before your lordships, that we may give satisfaction to your lordships, and the world, what this plot hath been, and how carried on every where. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 1443 My lords, the consequence of that is very t; for, my lords, if there were a general lesign, and a general plot, as clearly there was, some were to act in Spain, and some in France; some in other places; some in Ireland, Scotland, and England, and a great number of jesuits (we have a matter of hiny in chase about this business)I say, my lords, if it be so, if one action be in one place, and another in another, yet if there be a common consent to accomplish this plot, then what the one dves is the act of all, and the act of all is the act of every one. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 1444 “ My lords, the persons were many, and the places and times many they acted in, and the designs which they were to accomplish and the means wherewith they were to accomplish them were many tou. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 1445 My lords, in the case of lord Lovat, the same sort of doctrine is laid-down with respect to the evidence
SOLICITORGENERAL 1447 This was said upon an objection that was taken to the evidence of Mr. Murray, of Broughton
SOLICITORGENERAL 1449 With submission to your lordships, this letter is evidence upon the same ground
SOLICITORGENERAL 4786 lt has already been proved that at the dinner on the 20th of January, Franklow appeared in the regimentals ef this association. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 8900 The attorney general objected, because the question was not put ia the proper style. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11304 I shall trouble your lordships for the purpose of stating the extent to which this principle may go; and your lordships cannot but be aware how extremely important it is to attend to the manner in which questions of this sort have been permitted to pass upon trials. They are often not attended to, they are often thought unimportant upon particular trials, and therefore not objected to; nothing can show that in a more striking light than the question which Mr. Erskine stated to have been put in Fitzharris’s case, “ whether the witness thought the act with which he was charged, was done with a treasonable intent,—which was the very question to be left to the jury. Now that question having been put withoutany objection to it, shows that in the course of trials of this nature, things are frequently passed over without objection which ought to be objected to, especially on the part of the crown, to whom itis constantly attributed, in all trials of this nature, that they are pressing the prisoner too far; that sort of odium being constantly attempted to be thrown upon every crown prosecution ; those who are employed by the crown are always extremely anxious not to raise objections, where they do not think that the general necessity of public justice requires that they should be raised. Now the objection here I believe, is raised simply upon the grounds of the general necessity of public justice; at least, as for myself, and with that view which I have conceived of the subject, I have been so far from objecting to questions being put, that I have sat silent till now during almost the whole of this trial; but it strikes me that the rules and principles of law, and especially the law of evidence in criminal matters, ought to be attended to with a very considerable degree of care and caution, for unless they are attended to, it is impossible to say to what length, upon the authority of what has passed in particular cases the matter may not be carried. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11305 I have conceived that a question which went to a particular fact, not relative to the charge of the very fact which was in mii never could in its nature be asked with a view to ny the truth of the particular charge; general character may be given in evidence, general conduct may be given in evidence, conduct being in effect part of character, but I never did conceive, that in any case whatever, if a man was trying for any act whatever, that you could give in evidence any particular acts that he had done at any particular time, under similar circumstances, and the question which is now attempted to be put, appears to me tobe of thatnature ; if this question can be put, why may not the prisoner at the bar, give In evidence every letter such he has ever written to any person whatever, upon litical subjects, in which he may have stated 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11306 ‘his own objects in any way in which bthought proper, and, perlvaps, with avs to this very prosecution; it strikes me, thi: this is considered, the danger of the adasion of such evidence is considerable, ai that it is contrary to all the principles uv which Courts have proceeded. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11307 If your lordships advert to the cases cts! by Mr. Erskine, and see the manner in wie he has stated them, I think your lonshy will find that, except as far as inadvertesi may have permitted questions to pass u noticed, they do not press very hard upon tt: case. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11308 With respect to the case of lord Ger Gordon, I have looked into it; having ue trial before me, it does not appear to meta! any one question was put with respect tott words of lord George Gordon at any tut, 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11309 1 which did not, in effect, form part of bisaduct in the very transaction which wa t question. Like the cry of a mob, for stance, in pulling down a house, the gener cry of a mob is given in evidence against it prisoner, because it was a part of the trusxtion at the time. es 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11310 With respect to the other cases, I think will be found that the questions have ral been upon the cross-examination of thness, and not upon any original exsminata on the part of the prisoner himself, for it purpose of showing by what he did at a time, what was probably his intention damanother thing at another time. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11312 I will then slitle advert to some of them: in Cornishsax , what wasit? He called several witness testify his loyalty, and that he drank tk King’s health ; does that warrant the questa which the learned counsel was going to pul Mr. Stuart with respect to Mr. bi a cular object in a particular thing? For thas the nature of the question hre was goingtop So in sir John Freind’s case, what are the questions that were put? When you hae been present in company, and they bave beet speaking upon the subject of goveramest what has he said or done? Why he us say, “ forbear, I do not admit of apy discourse ; that is evidence of his gem conduct with respect to the goveroment ol te country, and with respect to his veiw intentions as to that government; Mr. ton, I think, says, although you would a8 comply with what was proposed to yu, i you said you would never be concerned in plot. Now I think that that expression ma! have been upon a cross-examination, by 3 person who was called to give evidence plot
SOLICITORGENERAL 11314  . derstand it. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11315 dn which yoy have thought proper to conknowledge of law; I am not used to mayself, but I will not be taught by you or any be'concerned jn any such plot as was charged. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11316 proved, as clear as day-light, that he was concerned in a plot. And what a way this is of trying the guilt of 3 person, with respect to 9 particular fact, by bringing persons tg say, at at a particulay time he said he woujd no 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11317 Would ‘it be permitted upon a trial for murder, for instance, to give in evidence, that the prisoner said he would not commit a gnurder ; and yet as far as I have any conception of this, as stated by my Jearned friend, it was simply that evidence; and thereforeIthink it must have been upon a cross-examination. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11319 Then I do not understand. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11321 The manner, sir, in which you have thought proper to conduct yourself towards me, in the course of this trial has been such as reflects upon my character. I wil not submit to any map for talk of other person, propriety of conduct either ina civil or criminal case; I believe, I know myduty in both as well as you do; and I trust that I shall discharge it. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11322 y lords, the next that was mentioned was there? In order to show his general affection to government, it was asked, how has he behave at any general rejoicings? Is that any thing more than evidence of general deportment? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11323 ‘With respect to Rosewell’s case, itseems to me that that is in a great degree general deRest alhouph Y 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11324 that there was a degree of inaccuracy jn permitting the question to be put exactly as it was put ; but the question really tended simply to this, whether his general deportment was that of aman who was loyal and: attached to the government of the country? and nothing more. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11325 As for what my learned friend said with Yespect to a sermon being, or nat, treason; I think there wasa sermon which is mentioned in the history of our country, I mean the sermon preached by Dr. Shaw, at St. Paul’s Cross, for the purpose of exciting the people to 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11326 ‘rise against Edward the fifth, and put Richard 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11327 ‘the third upon the throne, which wasas clear an overt act of high treason as ever was committed. 1 mention this, because certainly the words which my learned friend has said he made usc of, did escape my ear, as well as the attorney general’s ; and, which shows that they did escape my ear, I do assure him that I have taken down, in the margin of my brief, that vey case of Dr. Shaw, which I then recollected, and that I could not have taken it down if I had conceived he had made use of the words which he says he made use of, and which I have no doubt he did, : 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11328 in that office, which my learned friend near me now holds, may not when it is produced as an authority against them, have it said that Mpon this trial (and a solemn one trust it will be) such and such things were admitted to be given jn evidence, and that therefore these reasons it 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11329 J must confess, that it} ikewise was a case in which I should think Under these circumstances, from the necessity that there is that in such a case as this a rule should be laid down which can be properly pursued—A rule which men may understand, and, calling upon your lordships attention that we objected sporting the prisoner’s general conduct; also to no questions releclaring that, for myself, in the view which ] 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11330 have of the case, I would rather have the question asked than not, yet for the sake of generyl justice, for the sake of what is to be one in future trials, and that other persons such evidence ought always to be given; for joes seem to me Important, that your lordships should lay down some rule upon the subject. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11873 Gentlemen of the jury, When I had the honour of addressin: you last night, I stated to you the pa idea I had of the persons who were engaged in the transactions which have been brought in evidence before you, liow far in those transactions (though not specifically and precisely) how far I conceived the prisoner was generally implicated; what was his character in those transactions, and what were the characters of those who were the agents in them;protessing to consider, and to believe, that the vast majority of the persons engaged were not of that description of persons to whom the highly criminal intent imputed to the prisoner, ought to be imputed. I also stated to you what I conceived to be clearly the law upea the subject; hoping that, under the direction of my lords upon the bench, you will be of opinion that what I have stated as the law, is 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11874 Twesdex, liberty ; and that they had declared, in theSaeetaly the law of the land, derived down to us now for-a period of between four and five hundred years. Having proceeded then to state to you what appeared to be, from the evidence, as far as 1 went through it, the views, objects, and intentions of the persons concerned in these transactions, I had arrived at that period when the societies addressed the National Convention of France, aud I had insisted considerably at large upon that transaction. I had insisted upon it, because it appeared to me to be a transaction which showed their views, their intentions, and their objects so plainly, so clearly, and so irrefragably, that 1 thought it impossible, in any part of the case, more strongly to impress upon your minds what those views, what those intentions, and what those objects were, and how they meant finally to accomplish those views, intentions and objects, namely, by assembling a National Convention. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11875 I think, gentlemen, if you advert simply and only to those two Addresses; to that introduction to one of them when it was presented to the National Convention by Mr. Barlow and Mr. Frost, and to the answer which was given by the president of the National Convention—an answey in which no fraud or disguise was necessary to be used, and in which, on the contrary, the plain truth was most likely to appear—you can have no doubt in your own minds that the views, the objects, and the intentions of the prisoner at the bar, and of all those who were so far concerned with him as to have a complete conmexion with that transaction, were nothing less than the destruction of the government of this country, by means of an assembly of the people, and to establish a representative government in the room of that government under which this country has so long floufished, in spite of all the abuses that belong to it. Abuses will belong to every government, perhaps aboininable abuses belong to this government—I will not dissemble that there may be such; and as far asin my power, I should think it my duty to bring them forth whenever it should be necessary to do so, for whatever situation a man may stand in in the country, he bas an interest infinitely dearer than that situation. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11876 Gentlemen, having stated to you what apted to me to be a reasunable conclusion tom the transaction with France, which I have mentioned, I will notice to you the observations which naturally occur from the cunduct of those who were concerned in it: and I must here observe, that as it has been extremicly difficult in the course of this long drial, to mark with certainty all the papers that have been produced, I may by possibility, but I am sure it will be unintentionally, menUon to you some papers which may not have becn actually produced. If I should do so, I should be much obliged to the counsel for the prisoner if they can correct me. If not, Iwish my friends to do so. Twas going to state to you a letter from the society at Stockport to the prisoner, dated the Srd of November, 1792. gentlemen, ou will recollect that with respect to all the el that have been produced, except, I think, one, not a single observation has been made by the counsel for the prisoner. That one is a letter from Norwich, which I shall Notice to you presently. In this letter of the 3rd of November, 1792, the secretary of the society at Stockport, says, “ I am directed by the Friends of Universal Peace and the Rights of Man, which very title I think, if you advert to it, plainly shows what the intention and object of these parties were; for you will recollect (the thought occurs to me at the moment) that the idea which had been conceived by those persons, was an enthusiasm unquestionably, but an enthusiasm dangerous in the highest degree; the idea which they had conceived was, that by the establishment of the Rights of Man, universal peace would be established throughout the world. When, therefore, persons assuine the appellation of the Friends of Universal Peace and the Rights of Man, they plainly declare that they have Not in view any reform in the government of this country, as now established, because it is, according to their declaration, inconsistent not only ah their conception of the Rights of Man, but with their conception of the procuring universal peace. Their idea of the means of procuring universal peace was, that by establishing a representative government throughout the world, the interests of the people would be so immediately considered y the government of every country, that war would cease, and universal peace would be established throughout the universe, and all the world would be, in effect, one nation, You will recollect that that has appeared in a variety of instances in the papers which have been produced to you. Thatenthusiasm they certainly had, and an enthusiasin as dangerous to government as any that ever existed; as dangerous as the enthusiasm of the millenarians, or Fifth Monarchy-men, who in the last century occasioned some disturbance, not very violent, indeed, in this country, under an impression upon their minds that Christ was to come to establish his own government upon earth, and that there was to be universal peace and good-will among men ; what they called the kingdom of the saints. Under that impression they made an insurrection in the reign of Charles the second, which was suppressed after the death of a few people. There had been an insurrection of the same nature under the government of Cromwell, which also was soon suppressed; but the persons concerned in these transactions, to the very last persisted in their enthusiasm, and soine of those executed in the reign of Charles 2nd, protested in their last moments, that if they had been deceived, they had been deceived by heaven. When the minds of men are capable of being worked up to such blasphemous expressions, it is not possible to say to what length they may not go. Their sincerely entertaining such ideas, does not at all lessen the danger of them; does not at all lessen the necessity for the government of the country to take the means of repressing them, and punishing the delinquents in the severest manner. If men should take it into their heads that the community of goods is part of the christian religion, and should upon that ground take the goods of their neighbours, they must be punished as robbers, because it is impossible to preserve the peace of society by any other means. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11877 Gentlemen, I have digressed in consequence of what occurred to me from the title which! these people at Stackport chuse to assume. The letter proceeds—“ I am directed by the Friends of Universal Peace and the Rights of, Man, to inform you, that we received two! letters trom you; the first, dated September 21st, requesting us to concert with you in transmitting to the French National Convention an address signed by every member
SOLICITORGENERAL 11879 The letter proceeds— with respect tu the substance of this letter, we believe that the cause of the French is that of every individual person in Europe, that is not fattening on plunder, or who, through ignorance, obstinacy and inattention, sit unconcerned, and will not be persuaded to consider, although inevitable ruin should be the awful consequence
SOLICITORGENERAL 11881 men and free citizens; and that our heart are united with theirs, as in one comma cause, considering, as in a great meas, their victory our emancipation, togetier with their own. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11882 Now, what was that victory 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11884 Gentlemen, observe the manner in which this letter proceeds— “ Yes, should it ever be the case that our ministry should be so per dious, as contrary to their pee faith of neutrality, to join the execrable band of dee pots against the cause of freedom, we wil stand forward, even to the hazarding our lives, by using every justifiable means a counteract their machinations, and give to the friends of freedom all the encouragement and support which-we severally, unsupported, can afford, ; 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11885 Gentlemen, is not that a clear and plain de claration—is not that saying, without a doubt, that considering the cause oft the French as thelr own cause—considering the victories of the French as their own victories ; considering emancipation of the French as theirownemalcipation, theywere eager themselvesto to the extinction of what they call treacheroes royalty and so to restore toevery individual his equal and indubitable rights, as free meD free citizens; and thatthey would do this tothe hazarding of their lives: Tt seems 10, that it is impossible to conceive a more com plete comment upon those addresses to the National Convention, than that which is com tained in this letter
SOLICITORGENERAL 11887 But, gentlemen, what is the letter Norwich, which my learned friends oie descend to observe upon—TI supposs be 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11888  . selection which in perbaps, they found, tp take notice of something, and without any very clear view, I should apprehend, in the have le of it; unless, that, in the course of the evidence, there was very considerable allusion to it, and therefore they thought it could not possibly escape notice
SOLICITORGENERAL 11890 November the 11th, 1792
SOLICITORGENERAL 11892 It states, “ We, the Society for Political Information at Norwich, are desirous of holding, and strenuously supporting, the noble sentiments, which you (the London Corresponding Society) “ so lately and friendly dispersed among us; and, as we so much admire your well-adapted plan for a reformation in the state, permit us, with the utmost deference to your worthy society, to participate with you in all your great national correspondence, which your very name promises to maintain ; and in consequence thereof, it is humbly desired by the society which I have the happiness to represent, to incorporate three members with yeur worthy fraternity; in doing which, I shall here inform you of their names and residence : then the three persons are mentioned—“ Our principal design in doing this, is, that we may have an opportunity of knowing more exactly, what may be thought the most eligible steps to be taken in carrying on this great business of our associated brethren, and to have an opportunity to ask such sort of questions as may be thought very reasonable among the brethren, especially when we think that publications are covered with a sort of obscurity in them, as the Sheffield people’s declaration, which seems determined to support the duke of Richmond’s plan only, 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11893 Now there, gentlemen, is a society which Perceives a sort of obscurity in the declarations uf the Sheffield society, and states in what it conceives that obscurity to consist, “ especially when we think that publications are covered with a sort of obscurity in them, as the Sheffield pevple’s declaration, which seems determined to support the duke of Richmond’s plan only. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11894 Gentlemen, you will recollect that the plan of the duke of Richmond was a plan: which, however I may think it wild and extravagant, wasa pan which had no other object whatever than that of reforming the House of Commons in this country, by making all persons who were of a certain age, and not liable to certain objections, capable of giving their Votes for the election of members of that House, dividing the whole country into districts for that purpose, and allotting, I think, about 2,600 votes to the election of every member, and making the members about 500. So that it had not, in any degree whatever, in view, the giving what is called the right of active citizenship? that is the right of every man to share in the government of the country; but expressly confining in his letters, and in all his declarations upon the subject, his idea of reform, to giving to every man the right of choosing a person by whom the laws by which he was to be governed, were to be made —a distinction very clear-and very plain, but not very easily to be found in that declaration of the Sheffield people
SOLICITORGENERAL 11896 The letter proceeds, after observing that the Friends of the people and the Society for Constitutional Information did not agrce— “ We would be glad to know the reason; it seems to me as though the difference was this: the Friends of the People mean only 4 partial reform, because they leave out words expressing the duke of Richmond's plan, and talk only of a reform; while the Manchester people s¢em to intimate, by addressing Mr. Paine, as though they were intent upon republican principles only. We are accused of pressing hard upon the prisoner for addressing Paine. Did not this Norwich Society, with whom he corresponded, consider that, by addressing Paine, the Manchester people seemed to intimate that they were intent upon republican principles only ? And did not the Friends of the People put the same construction upon the conduct of the Society for Constitutional Information. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11897 The letter proceeds —“ Now, to come closer to the main question, it is only desired to know whether the generality of the societies mean to rest satisfied with the duke’s plan only’—conceiving therefore, as you see. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11898 Gentlemen, that the least that they were to vein view, was establishing the duke’s plan —‘ Whether the generality of the societies mean to rest satisfied with the duke’s plan only ; that is, whether you struggle for more, or will be contented with that; for that must be the meaning of the words— or whether it is their private design to rip up monarchy by the roots, and plant democracy in its stead. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11899 Gentlemen, when we attend to this letter, ais impossible not to perceive that this Norwich Society was floating in a degree of uncertainty with respect to the views of the other societies, was disposed, perhaps, to be content with the duke of Richmond’s plan only, to rest satisfied with it, but at the same time to obtain whatever it could beyond it. That this letter was written for the purpose for which it was supposed by the London Corresponding Society to have been written, for the purpose of knowing what were the true and real sentiments of this London Corresponding Society. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11900 Now, gentlemen, if the London Corresponding Society had intended to hold sacred the House of Lords, and had no object in view but establishing a new constitution of the monarchy of the country, to hold sacred the House of Commons, by universal suffrage and annual parliaments, would they have hesitated in answering this letter? would they, as described in Lynam’s evidence (and by the way I would observe that Lynam’s evidence throughout is capable of being contradicted by hundreds and Gapdreds of persons, if it be Not true, and there is not one person brought to contradict one single word of it), would they have deliberated in the manner in which he describes them to have deliberated upon the subject? would they have thought that this letter was intended: to draw them into some incautious declaration, and that in conequerce they might be brought into some difficulties? what incautious declaration could they have been drawn into by this letter, if they had meant what it is now pretended they did mean? Their answer in that case would have been, “ You have totally mistaken us; we have not the most distant idea of what you suppose, of ripping up monarchy by the roots, and placing democracy in its Stead; our view is simply and only a reform of the House of Commons upon the duke of 's plan. The answer to the letter was the most simple and plain imaginable, it never could have been matter for deliberatia and consideration. They would have treated this letter as a letter not to draw them i, except it was to draw them in to do thz which they did not mean to do, and asa letter which ought, therefore, to be rejected with the utmost indignation. But what do they do? they deliberate upon this letter, whichis dated the 11th of November, and at on the 26th of November, they send this aswer—it was addressed, first of all, “ Gentle men, but that is scratched out, and “ Fell Citizens put in its place. Observations have been made upon the word citizen. U! tionably we are all citizens of the same sta, and when the word citizen is used without any particular allusion, it certainly means notbmg in any degree improper; but what is the comment which they themselves have gives upon the word citizen, in the report of ther committee of constitution? They distinguish between citizen and subject—“ citizen, the ancient appellation given to the members of free states—subject can only, with propriety, be applied to a member of a state whose go vernment has been instituted by foreign con uest, or by the prevalence of a domestic action. Thus they have constantly, if you will recollect, in all their papers, intimated the most gross falshood—that the British constitution was a government instituted by foreign conquest; meaning, as Mr. Paine thinks proper to assert most falsely, that the constitution and government of this country was the result of the Norman conquest, whereas, in truth, all the alteration that that comagiteak introduced, was an alteration pra cipally in the aristocratical part of the constitution, and those must recollect who know any thing of the history of the country, that the Saxon es and institutions are the whole foundation of our government, particularly that part of it which vonsiats in the admins tration of justice, which is the great security of the liberty of the subjectThercfore, gentlemen, the word “ citizen is not an ndifferent word when used by these persoss: it would be indifferent used by others, but when used by persons who draw a distinction between citizen and subject, and who assert that no persons are to be called subjects bet those who are members of a state whose co vernment has been instituted by foreign conquest, or the prevalence of a domestic factica, which they call an usurped government, they mean to assert that they are determined no longer to remain subjects of the British co vernment, but to be fellow citizens of a new state. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11901 Gentlemen, the letter having in its adcres the alteration from “ gentlemen to “ Fellow Citizens, proceeds thus—“ Your letter of the 11th instant, was by the secretary laid behre the Committee of Delegates of the London 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11902 Corresponding Society; the London Corres-}| They proceed, gentlemen, to say, “ they ponding Society having never before heard of your society, wish to have some further information concerning it, as to its origin, its principles, and the number of its members. h an account in your next letter will give them great satisfaction. Here, gentlemen, they are writing to a society of whom they profess not before to have heard; of whom, therefore, they ought certainly to have been particularly cautious, because they could not possibly know any thing of that which they here inquire after, the principles of its embers. The letter proceeds—“ They do not tho‘ roughly comprehend how it would be possible to incorporate with our society, three of your members residing in Norwich, inasmuch as it would be impossible to communicate to them at that distance all our correspondence, ‘and they could not attend our committees, where the business is transacted. If it is information you want, they will very readily -alswer- any question you may put to them. As to the object they have in view, they refer you to their addresses. I shall take notice -of these addresses presently, of which my learned friend reminds me that the counsel for the prisoner have taken no notice whatever; not one single observation has been made upon those ardresses, though those adare here expressly referred to, as containing the objects the society had in view. “ As to the objects they have in view, theyTefer you to their addresses; you will therein " see they mean to disseminate political knowledge, and thereby engage the judicious part of the nation to demand a restoration of their “rights in annual parliaments. The members ot those parliaments, owing their election to the unbought and nnhiiassed suffrage of every citizen in possession of his reason, and not incapacitated by crimes, they consider the obtaining such parliaments to be the indwork of every necessary reform. To this, therefore, they steadily adhere, and turn themselves neither to the right, nor to the left, to follow any other plan whatever. The rules and orders of their society being so plain and easy, that if they can get a majority of the nation to act as they do, the proposed reform will effect itself. They look upon the trifling differences that may have arisen between the several societies to be of very little consequence, and think they will subside without any ways injuring the cause. Those trifling differences consisted, as stated to them by the Norwich Society, in the question, whether the societies meant to rest sa-tisfied with the duke of Richmond's plan only; or, as the Friends of the People proposed, still less violent measures ; or whether it was their private design to rip up monarchy by the roots, and place democracy in its stead. These are the phe! differences ; and I observe that this word riffing is put in the place of the word little. It, therefore, Was hot a word that was not considered. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11903 think it a matter of small importance what. ever name you choose to adopt; they advise you to follow their plan, and divide yourselves Into small societies, each of which to choose a delegate; the delegates when met to form the committee, and transact the business of the society ; afterwards let each delegate sapere to his division the business so done, let him admit fresh members, communicate fresh intelligence, promote and encourage political discussion, or read to you such books as may convey the instruction your weaker members stand in need of. Weak brethren, you will recollect is a term that was very much in use at one time; it meant a person that was not risen to that height of enthusiasm which was necessary for what was then called the good cause— but above all, and then the word “ gentlemen, is struck out—“ but above all be careful to preserve peace and good order among you; let nu dispute be carried to excess. And here come the words which show the meaning of the whole of this letter—The question put to them was, whether it was their private design to rip up monarchy by the roots, and place democracy in its stead; see what answer they give to that. Instead of expressing their indignation at such an idea: instead of saying, how could you imagine that such was our intention: how could you conceive that we had ever thought of destroying that which is so essential to the established constitution of this country, which is indeed the very essence of its government ; the essence of the government of this country being that it is a monarchy; a limited monarchy; the great use of that monarchy being that it reduces action to a single point, it suppresses ambition, it contains every thing within a just prerogative, and it gives us this boast, that we never need fear a Robespierre, or any dictator, because we have a king; because we have a person at the head of all, to whose situation no person can aspire, but whose powers are so limited by known and bounded prerogatives, that he cannot pass beyond them without exciting the jealousy of all? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11904 “Gentlemen, the answer is very curious ; it is—“ Let no dispute be carried to excess; leave monarchy, democracy, and even religion entirely aside; never dispute on these topics. What! never dispute on the topics of monarchy and democracy! on the propriety of establishing the one or the other as the government of a country, when persons were considering what ought to be the reform to be created in the governmont of the country ! “ Let your endeavours go to increase the number of those who wish fora full and equal representation of the people, and Icave toa parliament so chosen to form plans for remedying the existing abuses. Should they then not answer your expectations, at the year's end, you may choose others in their stead. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11905 Now, gentlemen, this letter which chooses to leave monarchy and democracy entirely alone, in effect states a plan of clear and pure democracy ; for it says— let your endeavours go to increase the number of those who wish for a full and equal representation of the people, and leave toa parliament so chosen —that is an entire parliament, so chosen by a full and equal representation of the people— an elective senate —for it can mean nothing else— to form plans for remedying the existing abuses. Should they then not answer your expectations, at the year’s end you may choose others in their stead
SOLICITORGENERAL 11907 Gentlemen, you have been told that the prisoner never talked of the abolition of meonarchy—never talked of the abolition of the peerage—of the establishment of democracy—but all his language was only of the duke of Richmond’s plan
SOLICITORGENERAL 11909 (te the number of those who wished for a fil and equal representation of the people, cording to sense in which he used the words; and “ leaving to a parliament so cwniente accomplish every object that wis! a The letter proceeds—“ The committee oa you every assistance in their power, bi request that your questions may relate chid: to the methods of obtaining a reform in pe liament. Still observing the same sortconduct; do not put to us any such awkwar questions, as whether we mean to be coskat with the duke of Richmond’s plan only, whether it is our private design to npmonarchy by the roots, and place demon in its stead—those are awkward questicts; we don’t like to write answers to such que tions, but request your guesses may reise chiefly to the methods of obtaining a reforw in parliament. The letter concludes, “ Lic yourselves we are friends to peace, notauarcr, and well wishers to the Rights of Man, s¢ not so sanguine in our expectations, 3s imagine those rights will be restored by ue spontaneous consent of those who have 2 long deprived mankind of them. Gentlemen, you will observe that the lett: from the Norwich Society, to which this letter is an answer, concludes—“ I shall say more at present, but remain a friend to peac, not to anarchy, a well wisher to the Rights o Man, when obtained by consent. The a swer to it says, “ The London Corresponding Society, are also friends to peace, not anarchy, and well wishers to the RightsMan, yet not so sanguine in their expect tions, as to imagine those rights will b restored by the spontaneous consent of thove who have so long deprived mankind of then. Thus they expressly declare that their ness are not of the peaceable description of thee of the Norwich Boclety that they look tos degree, at least, of force; to taking the & vernment of the country, from those to whem it has been intrusted, against their const; and to ne it b ae mpauses epee selves shall provide for the purpose. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11910 Gentlemen, this, and numberless other letters of the same description, which I might observe upon, clearly and distinctly, as it seems to me, show the principles, the views, and the intentions of the persons who are engaged in this transaction ; and the means by which they meant finally to accomplish those intentions. I think that we may fairly judge of the views and intentions, and even of the principles of a man, not only by what he himself declares, but by the principles of the company he keeps; by the principles of those whose character, and whose acts he approves, by the principles of his publications, I am told I am not to judge of men by their opinions but by their actions, I answer, I must frequently judge of the object of their actions by their opinions. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11911 Suppose the Roman Catholics, in the reign of king Willlam, had set about a reform of religion, and for that purpose had attempted to assemble a convention, to act as a convention of the people, for the reform of religion. Could you have had a doubt what sort of a reform they meant to effect? Could you have had a doubt that they meant to establish Popery ? Would a doubt of it have existed in the mind of any man? And one great reason why you could not have had a doubt of it, would be, the intolerant principles of Popery, though perhaps not of the Roman Catholic religion, for I know they make a great distinction, and a distinction in some degree well founded, between Papists and Roman Catholics; but the great majority of Roman Catholics in England, at least in former times, were Papists, if they are not so now. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11912 Gentlemen, when we advert to the papers which have been laid before you, we must observe the same spirit of intolerance in these societies. The French at this moment are as intolerant in their political principles as the Papists ever were in their religious principles. They willnot endure any other sort of government to exist in the world, but their ownform of government, because they say that the government which the light of reason discovers to man, ought to prevail all over the world, and therefore they are in conscience bound to promote it. Thus they hold the same obligation upon conscience in matters of politics, as the Papists deemed bindin, upon conscience in matters of religion, an which men hold to be binding in matters of religion, because they think they ought toendeavour to prevail upon other men to take those means for their final happiness, which they themselves think the right means. This is a natural impression upon the mind of man; but applying that Feinciple to government is perfectly new, and dangerous to the highest degree; as it tends to the unsettling of eve state whatever, because no two persons “il agree upon the question, which. is the must proper form of government? No two persons perhaps ever perfectly agreed upon the subJect—and if persons by doen certain principles, and act upon the persuasion, that those Principles are so clearly the result of the light of reason, that they ought to be established throughout the world, and that it is highly meritorious to establish them throughout the world, they act upon a principle of intolerance which is just as great, and just as dangerous as that of the Papists. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11913 If therefore men, who in the years 1793, and 1794, professed to consider no government as lawful, but that which is established on what they call the indefeasible Rights of Man, as taught by the French, by Paine, and by Barlow; and who professed to admire every thing done in France—the extermination of treacherous royalty, aud all hereditary distinction, and the confiscation of property ; if such men show a desire to fraternize with persons of the same disposition; if such men proceed to declare their intention to reform the government of Great Britain, and take steps for that purpose; and especially if the steps they take are, endeavouring to assemble a convention, which should act in the character of a convention of the people, can any thing but the destruction of the British government be their end? Is it possible to imagine, that they had any other object? For if they should once have it in their power to effect any reform, can they, upon their own principles stop short of that reform, which they declare can alone constitute a lawful government? It is not in the nature of things gentlemer. If men once get the power to make a reform, and lay it down as a principle that the only just rule in forming a government, is establishing the indefeasible and imprescriptible Rights of Man, with all their consequences, the necessary result is, that the moment they have the power in their hands, they will do the whole. It is impossible to doubt it. But it is not simply opinions, which the Sean and those who were combined with im have declared. They are not simply opinions ; they are resolutions—resolutions to act upon opinions. The societies, by their addresses to the French Convention, have declared, not only their opinion that the government of this country ought to be republican —not only their wish to make the government of this country republican—but a resolution to take measures to effect it. They resolve to make the government of this country republican—and? having so done, they in effect declare, that they have entered into a complete conspiracy against the government of the country. For when men entertain opinions ; when these opinions are followed by a wish to carry them into effect, and a resolution to attempt to accomplish that wish, they form a conspiracy to do what they sowish to bedone, Ido not know what is a conspiracy, if that is not one. And these men have declared, not only that such are their opinions, that such is their wish, that such is their resolution, but they have declared how they mean to accomplish that resolution ; namely, by means of a convention of the people; and to establish within this country, that sort of government which would enable the French National Convention to address a National Convention in England, not as a constituent assembly, simply, but as the governing power of this country. Gentlemen, this has been the construction which has been put upon acts combined with opinions in other cases, What was the case of Crohagan, which was mentioned by one of my learned friends? A man declared his opinion that the king ought to be killed; he declared his wish to effect it; he declared his resolution to effect it, if he could come at the king. This he declared in Spain; and having done so, he came to England. What was the interpretation which a jury put upon all this ? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11914 That he came to England for the purpose of effecting that resolution which he had previously made; namely, a resolution to kill the king if he could come at him; andInever heard the propriety of that decision of the jury, in any degree reprobated; on the con , it is always stated as an illustration of aprinciple. But if he had declared, not only, that he had formed the resolution to kill the king, but that he inittended to do it bya ah ge instrument, aud if he afterwards ad provided that very instrument, how strongly would the providing that instrument have declared his purpose, and especially if the instrument was of a particular construction, and such as is not ordinarily used ? You would say, immediately, there could not be a possibility of doubt of his purpose. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11915 Now let us see how this Corresponding Society, and those who leagued with theinn—I mean always the leading members—proceeded to carry into execution, that purpose which it seems to me they had clearly and expressly demonstrated in these addresses to the National Convention of France, and in the addresses of the London Corresponding Society, to the people of England, which I shall presently mention, and in the letters which I have observed upon. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11916 Gentlemen, this is necessarily a deduction of some length—but why is it so? because in the nature of the thing, a resolution of this kind could not be carried into effect in a moment. The only means by which it could be effected was, by raising up a strong party in this country to assist the conspirators in 0; ia the completion of their intent. The Revolution which has taken place in France, peat from very small beginnings, to the eight at which it has arrived. If we trace it from its source, we shall find so much similarity between what has happened there, and the nature of the attempt made in this country, so far as they have gone, that I think we shall perceive that the difference in the events has arisen from difference in circumstances, The ancient government of France had become so odious to all ranks of the people, that the opinion of the people, by which alone a government can be supported, failing all at once, the whole fabric fell together, almost without a struggle; and it was obvious to every one, that the meeting of the states-general, in the year 1789, must produce a total change ia the government of the country for this plain reason, that the opinions of a vast majority of the people were changed, with Tespect to the Propriety of their existing government; and whenever that shall be the case in any country, the government of that country cannot stand. The government of Great Britain, on the contrary, has long been the object of affection. We are in the habit of considering, that it has produced, during a long course of years, great public good. e view it with all its faults, with all its imperfections ; but in the result, wishing, as all of ere ee us may honestly and probably do wish, togive it as much of perfection as we can; and though we are sorry to see many of the abuses which prevail in it, yet we view it with a great degreeof attachment, and of reverence. e may be told, perhaps, gentlemen, and so we have been told by writers upon this subject, that all this is prejudice—prejudice! Gentlemen! What are the opinions that we form, upon the greatest number of subjects, but such as may be deemed prejudices? Is the mind of any man capable of reflecting, in all its extent, upon every thing which comes before its view. We are obliged, necessarily, to take a great deal from the instruction of others ; and that alone makes the important difference between men of education, aud men of no education. For education is, ina great degree, the instilling what, in this powt of view, may be considered as prejudices into the minds of men. It is giving them the benefit of the opinions of others; teaching them, in early life, to rest satisfied with the deductions which have brought the minds of other men to certain points; to take them as data, as principles, upon which they will p ceed to reason, and to act, in their future Men of great leisure, who have the opportanity of contemplating subjects with more mnuteness, who are not engaged in busines which any way distracts their attention, may speculate upon various subjects, which generality of men, in the busy world, cannot possibly find leisure to contemplate, whateret their situation in life may be. And a grest majority of the people in every country, let the nature of its government be what it msy, must necessarily be so much employed in ob taining the ordinary comforts of life, that it is impossible for them to employ’ upon many subjects, with any very good ef fect. This sort of fous it is that mio ences the minds of the generality of the people, with respect to the government of country
SOLICITORGENERAL 11918 ; prejudice of public opinion—and the first atarr) 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11919 (Parry tempt to destroy a government must necessarily be, to destroy that prejudice of public opinion in its favour, which is its support. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11920 he first operation of those who conspired the destruction of the ancient government of France, was unquestionably to destroy it in ; the public opinion; and that was completely effected befure the meeting of the states-general, in 1789. Having done this, they had removed every thing which ma retseil the go-Vernment, and it necessarily fell. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11921 Gentlemen, those who have imitated the proceedings of the French, in this country, ; and imitators, I call them, not because they make use of such a word as convention, " jmitators, I call them, not because they talk of organizing, and appoint committees, for Various purposes, suc as are made use of in 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11922 “ the French Assembly, but because they haveproceeded directly upon the plan which has succeeded in France, in overturning the established government; . they have proceeded upon the plan, which not only destroyed the government which existed previous to the year 1789, but which has also destroyed that 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11923 “ constitution established in 1791, which wasthe Most popular constitution, in its form, that ever was established in any country, with a king at the head, and indeed more popular than any constitution that ever was establishedin any country whatever. For the king of the French, as he was called, under that constitation, had, in effect, very little authority, except that most extravagant revenues unquestionably were assigned him, and some particular prerogatives were given him, which probably were intended, by those who framed the constitution, to enable him to assume, again, a certain degree of power, which they might conceive to necessary for keeping the whole together, and preventing the mass from tumbling to pieces. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11924 Gentlemen, Mr. Paine was fully aware of the effect of all this. He tells you, in his ig affection for this country, that, during e American war, he had it in contemplation, having transferred all his love for his native country to America, and declared himself acitizen of the world; an expression which tends to destroy all those attachments which unite ustogether; a man who becomes what he calls a citizen of the world, becomes, in a certain degree, an enemy to his own country, acting contrary to all those natural attachments which unite us to the society in which we have been educated, and which have hitherto been conceived as the best affections of man, and which the principles of these men lead directly to destroy
SOLICITORGENERAL 11926 This he mentions in a note, which shows what was, in his mind, the consequence of ttacking the public opinion upon the government of a country. He opens the introduction to the Second Part of the Rights of Man, with observing, that, what Archimedes said of the mechanical powers may be applied to reason and liberty : “ Had we a place to stand upon, we might raise the world. He conceived, that the propagation of his principles was that standing P ¢, by means of which he hoped to raise the world. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11927 Gentlemen, you will observe, that an imPression was made on the minds of all these men, that what had passed in France, in the course of the years 1789, 1790, and 1791, was 8 prelude only to that which afterwards would follow, long before the 10th of August, 1792 ; and that the 10th of August, 1792, was the glorious victory which completed their triumph. They considered the world as in a course: of revolutions; and, in the phrase of Mr. Paine, that revolutions were the order of the day. The impression upon the minds of these men, that the world was in a course of revolutions, and that revolutions were the order of the day, appears throughout almost all their papers. You will find, upon examination, that they considered a revolution as inevitable ; as that to which the nation must finally come. They have been likewise taught that the danger to which alone this sort of revolutionary principle was liable (for so Paine teaches them), was, the revolution being attempted, before the principles upon which revolutions ought to eee, and the advantages to result from them, were sufficiently seen and understood. Therefore, the object of the works of Mr. Paine, Mr. Barlow, and other publications of that description, was, to show to the people of this country, the principles upon which revolutions ought to proceed, and the advantages to result from them, in order that these being sufficiently seen and understood, the rest might follow. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11928 Gentlemen, for this purpuse a variety of pamphlets have been published, which have been observed upon to you. These pamphlets have clearly and unquestionably for their object, to destroy the opinion which the people generally have of the excellence of the British constitution, in all its parts, but more especially in those two parts which the counsel for the prisoner have said, it was the object of the prisoner to retain. For these books consider a House of Commons as a thing tolerable only in comparison with a House of Lords; anda monarchy they consider as utterly destructive of all principle. That there is something like principle ina House of Commons, but nothing like it in the other two. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11929 Gentlemen, if the persons who were engaged inthis did not mean to destroy this government, why should they endeavour to destroy the public opinion with respect to it? If they meant to reform it, why should they declare that no constitution existed? How could they reform that ‘which did not exist? The very declaration that there was no lawful constitution existing in the country, was a declaration, that whatever they might like in the present constitution, they meant to adopt as part of a new establishment, and not as part of the old establishment. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11930 Gentlemen, the ease with which men are induced to imagine that things are wrong in the state, has often been observed upon ; it has been said by an aneient and venerable writer of our own country, that “He that goeth about to persuade a multitude they are Not so well governed as they ought to be, shall never want attentive and favourable hearers ; fos they know the manifold defects to which every kind of regimen is subject ; but the secret lets and difficulties, which, in all public proceedings, are innumerable and inevitable, they have not ordinarily the judgment toconsider
SOLICITORGENERAL 11932 But, for the purpose of a systematic attack upon the government of the country, it was necessary that there should be some leader, some head, to direct the whole. Gentlemen, what has been the wonderful effect of the societies which have been established in France; I mean the Jacobin club, with its forty-four thousand affiliated popular societies, which, fora great length of time, really governed France, and kept it in continual agitation 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11934 the person whose name aj 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11935 One society, principally made use of for these purposes, was the Society for Constitutional Information, with respect to which, this observation may be made: It was a soci originally consisting of gentlemen of respectable characters, and in lependent principles —Some of them, perhaps, were soured by dis content ; and might carry their discontent ts great lengths; but they were men who wer not likely to answer the puposes of the per. sons who are the objects of the charge pow before you. Thete were likewise who got into this club, from time to time, and began to use such language, and to condect themselves in such a manner, that, yeu will find, almost all the original members of the club deserted it; and at last, as you will recollect from the proceedings of the society which were read to you, about sixteen or se venteen persons, appear to have been the whole of the members who regularly attended, frequently only five, six, or seven were present; and the business was often transacted with a great degree of inattention, There were seldom more than sixteen or seventeen present ; and if we advert to the persons present upon the important transactions, we shall find that a very few indeed, guided and directed that club
SOLICITORGENERAL 11937 You will easily perceive that such a society as this, was not that sort of society which could be made to operate as a Jacobin club; because a society of this description was net an open society, it could not, from the natere of its constitution, be made a popular society. But people looked to the character which the Society for Constitutional Information had long had in the country ; for the world in general did not know that their old res members bad declined attending the society. —WMr. Sheridan said, I think, that he had not attended at the society for eight or ten years. —As that, however, wasa thing not genetally known to the world, the proceedings of the Constitutional Society, signed by tbe se. cretary, had with the world the ty of the names of all those persons whe had been members of the society
SOLICITORGENERAL 11939 The consequence of this has been, that the prisoner at the bar has stood as the clear leader in all these transactions. By header, aay pears com forward in all the Gannichons, and he is involved therefore in all. He became afterwards, by association, a member of the Society for Constitutional Information. oo Gentlemen, the plan and constitusiom of this London Corresponding Society was admirably calculated for the effect which it was intended to have. Its name imports that the object of it was, to correspond with all other societies of the like description; and an imnportant object of this society was, to unite, by means of that correspondence, all the country societies with this society in London, and with the Society for Constitutional Intormation; so that they might move in one bond of union, in the manner recommended by that letter which I have mentioned to you. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11940 This society was extremely popular in its constitution. Any body might be admitted a member of it, of any description. The sums collected from the members were very small, They were formed into divisions; and when the members amounted to a certain number, they were to be divided again, for the purpose of diffusing their meetings more generally over the whole town
SOLICITORGENERAL 11942 and that committee of correspondence finally became the Conmittce of Secrecy, which I before observed upon. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11943 This society have, in three publications which they have given to the world, and which the gentlemen on the other side have notin any degree observed upon, declared their principles and vbjects, so far as they Ahought it proper and sate to declare them. You will recollect the manner in which they expressed themselves in the answer to the Norwich letter; and I must beg you will always have in view the answer to that Norwich letter. It is akey to all their language. It directs the Norwich Societies to leave monarchy and democracy, and all disputes upon that subject alone; but to look forward to one distinct object—the obtaining a fulland equal representation of the people in parliament, leaving to a parliament s0 chosen, to carry into execution the rest of their views, ifthey should not be able immediately to carry them into execution. Their intention, therefore, was, to keep as much as possible out of their publications, any thing about monarchy or democracy ; but, at the same time, tu express themselves in such a manuer as should convey completely, to those who chose to understand them, all that they meant. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11944 The first address of the London Corresponding Society was dated the 2nd of April, 1792, but which the evidence has clearly shown you, was concerted between the prisoner and some other persons, ata much earlier period. It begins thus—“ Assured that man, individual man, may justly claim liberty as his birthright we naturally conclude, that, as a member of society, it becomes his indispensable duty to Preserve inviolate that liberty, for the benefit of his fellow citizens, and of his and their posterity
SOLICITORGENERAL 11946 You will recollect, that, throughout every one of their papers, they have uniformly declared, that they considered the existing government of this country as an usurpation, and as an oppression
SOLICITORGENERAL 11948 Then they resolve expressly, “ That every individual has a right to share in the government of that suciety of which he is a member
SOLICITORGENERAL 11950 4akh 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11951 —“ That the people of Great Britain are not effectually represented in parliament.’—And then they say, hat, in consequence of a partial, unequal, and therefore inadequate representation, together with the corrupt method in which representatives are elected, oppressive taxes, unjust laws, restrictions of liberty, and wasting of the public money, have ensued
SOLICITORGENERAL 11953 These resolutions, thercfure, when attended to and attcnded to purticularly with the comment which they themselves make upon them in their letters, and other proceedings, amount to a clear resolution, “ That every individual has a right to a share in the government of the country; —meaning a share in the election of those persons by whom that government is to be administered, legislative and executive ; and the fourth, sixth, and seventh resolutions, taken together, clearly show that they meant to have a wholly elective parliament. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11954 Gentlemen, their second address was published on the 24th of May, 1792: and in that address they state the sort of test, as it has been called, which they proposed to administer to every member, upon his admission. Now, the only ground upon which tests of any kind can possibly be supported is, that, in the administration of the government of a country, it is necessary, for the safety of that government, that the persons who compose the actugl administration of the government, should not be adverse to the principles upon which that government is formed : That isthe only ground, as it strikes me, upon which any test whatever can be supported. — But a test in a society which was to have for its object the fair discussion of the principles of government, seems the most extraordinary thing imaginable
SOLICITORGENERAL 11956 The questions to be put to the membersbefore their admission, and to which they are to answer in the affirmative, are, “ First,— Are you convinced that the parliamentary meprescnialion of this country is at presentin-adequate and imperfect? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11957 “Secondly, are you thoroughly persuaded that the welfare of these kingdoms requires , that every person of adult years, in possession of his reason, and not incapacitated by crimes, should have a vote for a member of parliament? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11958 “ Thirdly, will you endeavour, by all justifable means, to promote such reformation in parliament ? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11959 Here, gentlemen, they bind, at once, all their members to one certain object, aud using all justifiable means; justifiable, you will observe, gentlemen, is a very lar word—“ all justifiable means to promote sua a reformation in parliament.—Is it, the, to be conceived, that the persons who became members of this society—I mean those who were the leading and directing members of 2 —meant that there should be, in any conve tion which they might assemble of the pecple, a full and fair. discussion of the subjet— that the present existing constitution of the country, in all, or any of its parts, should be tried in a fair deliberation—that the will aad wishes of the people should be taker yxa the subject 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11961 The report of their committee of consti tion states exactly the same resolution, wit this variation only, that the words, “ the wh fare of these kingdoms, are omitted: Why these words were omitted I think it is ox very difficult to discover, when one recollecs that in one of the letters which was from some society in the country, andwas afterwards published, the word kingems was altered for country, in two difierest places. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11962 Gentlemen, it is also clear, from that repot of the committee of constitution, to have just referred, that the persons composed this society, were fully aware, thi the opinions of a great majority of the pe ple of the country were not with For one of their resolutions is, that 0 majority, however great, can justly ce the minority of any part of their rights. Whenever it is attempted, the 3 bond is broken, and the minority havea right to resist —and this, is eae inky ae : of any part of their civilrights. en Hen, HE o. these civil rights? W y the fourth resolution is this, “ The civil rights every individual, are equality of voice 0 making of laws, and in the choice of the po sons by whom those laws are to be adminis 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11963 There they have expressly told you what they mean by the right of every individual to 4 shure in the government of that society of whi he isa member. It is not simply an equally of voice in making laws, but likewise in th choice of persons by whom those laws are to ke administered
SOLICITORGENERAL 11965 -7 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11966 be administered; that every person has a right to exercise these rights, thatno majority, however great, can justly deprive the minority of any part of these rights, and that, whereever it is attempted, the social bond is broken, and the minority have a right to resist. I do not wonder that my learned friends did not make any observation upon this paper—It is impossible to make any effectual observation upon it, for the benefit of the prisoner, because the meaning is clear and plain, beyond the possibility of doubt. Here are persons declaring a principle so wild, that if it were to prevail, it would be impossible for any government to exist—It has generally been conceived, that it is a very strong thing to say that the majority have a right to alter the constitution of a government, at least without very strong necessity for it. A num‘ber of people are assembled in a country, whose whole habits, and connexions, lead them to wish to remain in that country, and they are assembled upon certain terms of association, which forms their constitution. Every individual has a sort of sacred right to the observance of the terms of that association; a right, at least as sacred as his right to the property which he possesses.—If it be his wish to continue to live under that constitution, it is injuring him as materially and as essentially to take away that constitution of government, as to take away his property. Undoubtedly cases of necessity may arise, in which that right must ‘be invaded, as rights of property, and every other right must be invaded, in cases of necessity—even the right which every man has to his own life—you must remember the case which is commonly put, of two men being upon a plank in the sea, and the plank proves capable of supporting only one of them. It is said, that the stronger would be justified perhaps in the “ I confess, gentlemen, waa overcome with the dreadful alternative to which that man must be reduced—It is commonly observed, that it would be justifiable for the stronger, in that situation, to push the weaker from the plank, for his own preservation. But, gentlemen, if we feel so much when a man is reduced to such a dreadful situation, and feel that nothing but absolute necessity can justify the act which he does—what can justify men, who without a very strong necessity, shall attempt to disturb the established poverrunentt of any country, in which any large proportion of the in retain the government so established 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11968 without extreme necessity — but asserting that no majority, however great, can justly deprive the minority, of any part of their civil tights; that whenever it is attempted, the social bond is broken, and the minority have a right to resist; and assuming at the same time, as one of those civil rights, the right of equality of voice in the making of laws, and in the choice of persons by whom those laws are to be administered? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11969 Is not this a declaration, clear and plain, that they conceive they have an unquestionable right to resist any government which is not a republican government, founded upon their principles of universal representation ; and that any other government is so unlawful that they are not only not bound to give it support, but that they have a right to resist it to the utmost of their power, and in any manner in which they think fit to resist it? this is a principle which teaches rebellion against every government not founded upon their plan, and yet told that men who hold such principles, who come to solemn resolutions upon them, are men who have a perfect reverence for the monarchy of this country, for the hereditary peerage, for every part of the government of the country, except the corrupt representation in the House of Commons. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11970 Gentlemen, the address of this society of the 6th of August, 1792, proceeds exactly upon the same principles; and when you consider these addresses and resolutions in the report of the committee of constitution, I think you cannot have a doubt in your own minds that every thing which tends the other way in any part of their publications, is what the attorney general represented it to be, a mere veil to cover their designs; but so thin, so thread-bare, and so tattered, that the naked limb is starting outevery moment. This address of the 6th of August 1792, begins with those lines from Thompson which my learned friend read so well. Who will dispute any one principle which it contains? and yet, if passages are to be taken from books, and applied to such purposes, the best books may be perverted to the worst of purses. No book has been more perverted to Pad purposes than the bible. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11971 This address of the Corresponding Society to the inhabitants of Great Britain, on the subject of a parliamentary reform, begins thus— Uninfluenced by party pique, or selfish motives, no ways affrighted at the frowns of power—not in the least awed by the evidently hostile preparations of much alarmed aristocracy.’—Here conveying, for the first time, that idea which you afterwards see developed with-so much success, and which was to end in arming their own bars yon will observe the idea is here completely developed—“ not in the least axed by the hostile preparations of a much alarmed aristocracy—we, the London 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11972 Corresponding Society, united with a view of obtaining a thorough parliamentary reform, anxiously demand your serious and most collected attention, to the present vitiated state of the British government. We entreat you to examine coolly, and impartially, the numerous abuses that prevail therein, their destructive consequences on the poor, and their evil tendency on all: as also the rapidity with which these abuses increase both in number and magnitude. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11973 Gentlemen, I think you will observe, that in all the addresses, and in all the papers of these societies, there has been a great attempt to excite the poor to be of their side ; to interest the poor in their tavour, and to represent the poor as the great objects of their attention; to bold out, that their wishes were principally for the relief of the poor—Mr. Paine’s works, have many passages to this effect; and in Various other parts of this cause you must have observed the suggestion of the same ideas. In one of the letters which I shall byand-by observe upon (a letter of Margarot’s) the distinction is drawn for the very same purpose, between the poor and the rich— where he says “the rich are arming, why should not the poor do the same ? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11974 This address of the Corresponding Society, having urged the various abuses, prevailing in the British government, proceeds; “ we next submit to your examination, an effectual mode of putting a stop to them, and of thereby restoring to our no less boasted than imPaired constitution, its pristine vigour and purity ; and we thereuntg warmly solicit the Junction of your efforts with ours. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11975 “ This great end, however, we believe attainable solely by the whole nation, deeply impressed with a sense of its wrongs, uniting, and as it were with one voice demanding, of those 10 whom for a while it has entrusted its sovereignty, a restoration of annually elected parliaments, unbiassed, and unbought elections, and an egual representation of the whule body of the people. You will recollect that these are words frequently made use of— words which admit of different interpretation. But gentlemen, it strikes me that this very address contains completely that interpretation which the society themselves meant should be put upon the words, 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11976 Having proceeded to state the situation of the different persons of this country, and especially the poor, they say, “ Such being the forlorn situation of three fourths of the nation how are Britons to obtain information ant redress?Will the Court — will ministry aftord either 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11978 Gentlemen, you will observe how this is echoed back in all the letters from the country societies. For men, who use such expressions, to state, that they are men who have it in their view to obtain, from the existing legislature of the country, that alteration an the constitution which they propose, seems to me to be perfectly absurd. I would observe too, here, upon one part of this address, where it notices proclamations; because ut has been urged, by the counsel for the priso ner, that, those who have been engaged in these transactions, were never made aware that they were acting improperly. Why, gentlemen, in that jamation which is bere Noticed, and in a variety of other acts of vernment, it was clearly and expliciuy clared to them, that they were (&king steps which might lead to the most dangerous consequences. It was pointed out to them, that those who had the direction of government, conceived that the safety of the state was in danger; that there was a conspiracy formed to subvert the constitution of the country; that a reform in the representaticn of parks ment was 4 mere pretence; and that the object of the conspirators went infinitely beyond that. This they were distinctly told, over and over again, in a variety of ways. Even the various associations, as they term them, of the rich, showed that the rich apprehended the same danger? that they conceived there was an intention to make that sort of alters tion ia the constitution of the government which must be subversive of its principles, and destructive to their rights of property. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11979 Under these circumstances, oughta society, who had only in view a reforin in parliament, by clear and specific regulations, applying merely to the House of Commons, ought they to have expressed themselves in such lap guage? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11980 They proceed : “ The only resource then, friends and fellow citizens, will be found m those societies, which, instituted with a view to the public good, promote a general instruc tion of our rights as men, expose the abuses of those in power, and point out the only com Stitutional, the only effectual means of for warding a public investigation, and obtaining acom plete redress for a people, in whose credulous good nature originated their preseat difficulties. Clearly and directly pointing to that convention, which has since been attempted to be established. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11981 Gentlemen, this address likewise pointsout the very same thing which is noticed in the answer to the Norwich letter which indeed refers to thisaddress. The address says,“ Yet, fellow citizens! numerous as our grievances, andclose rivetted as weighty the shackles on our eedom, reform one alone, and the others will all disappear. If we once regain ar annually elected parliament, and that parliament to be fairly fie by all, the people will again share in the government of their country, and thet then unbought, unbiassed euffrages must ut doubtedly select a majority of honest members. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11982 Gentlemen, the answer (you will obeerve) to the Norwich letter, says,—‘ Leave Momerchy, Democracy, and even Religion entirely aside; never dispute on these topics ; let endeavours go to increase the number of who wish for a full and equal representation of the people, and leave to a parliament so chosen, to form plans for remedying the existing abuees. The letter, therelDre’ to the Norwich Society, commenting on this Address, shows you what they meant. It shows you, that they meant, in their words, to leave Mo. narchy and Democracy alone; but to hold out that. which they thought, under the cover of language, they mi y hold out ; and, at the same time, keeping clearly in view the destruction of Monarchy, and the establishment of Democracy, of which you cannot possibly have a shadow of doubt, when you consider the terms of that letter, the terms of this address, and the particular passages which Thave read from the report of the committee of constitution. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11983 Gentlemen, there are two things contained in this address, which struck me in a very extraordinary manner. One is, the description of what they conceived such a parliament (an elected parliament) as they describe, would do, when assembled. They say, that such a parliament, “ Finding that a most extruordinary waste of public money had taken place under the different pretences of places, Pensions, contracts, armaments, subsidies, secret service money, exc. our honest and atinual parliament would, after narrowly scrutinizing the same, retrench every sum needlessly or wickedly laid out. You will observe, this passage refers to a waste of public money, which Aad taken place, and says, this elected parliament would retrench every sum needlessly or wickedly laid out—not that it would prevenit, in future, improper expenses. Gentlemen, I leave to you to make the comMent upon that passage. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11984 The other passage which particularly struck me, is also a passage which speaks for itself, and which I take to he exactly of the same description as that which I last mentioned. — he people’s parliament finding, that, under Varlous pretences, grants of common land had been obtained by sundry persons, no ways to the benefit of the community, but very much to the distress of the pour, the same would be s00n restored to the public, and the robbed peasant again enabled annually to supply his disfamily with an increased quantity of bread, out of the profit arising from the liberty regained, of grazing a cow, two or three Sheep, ora brood of geese thereon. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11985 What can that possibly mean, but that all those commons, which, under the gencral cousentof persons interested, under the authority of acts of parliament, or in any other Manner, have been enclosed, improved, and divided, should, under pretence of restoring the rights of the poor, be taken from the present proprietors, and divided amongst those poor, for the perpese of engaging them in the Party? If it be possible to give any other con“truction to that paragraph, I wish you to do ts but my mind is incapable of giving it any other construction, and I think there cannot be an idea more destructive to private property. For under the same pretence, the whole property in land of every person in the country, might be destroyed. I cannot form a calculation of the immense quantity of land, which, within even the last twenty years, was common land, and is now become separate and enclosed, ee the faith of which inclosures, persons have laid out large sums of Money in improvements and bui! dings; and, generally speaking, those who had rights of common, had their rightscompensated in some way or other. Whatever injustice may have been, in particular instances (supposing any such to have been), if once an attempt is made to unsettle rights gained in such a manner, and so established, all right of property is necessarily in danger. If you once attack the principles on hick rights of property have been established, you must go on till you will destroy all right of property, and do exactly what has been done in France. For there, under the pretence of the rights of the public, an immense quantity of property, which had been granted, from a vast distance of time, by the crown, to individuals—as half the estates in this country are, perhaps, held under grants from the crown, although, perhaps, those pant cannot be actually traced—was taken tom the possessors, and given to the publie. The first French National Assembly, that Constituting Assembly which acted in many cases very properly, was guilly of the gross injustice of taking into the hands of the public, large quantities of land, from great numbers of persons, which had been purchased and acquired in various ways, because they said, the lands had been originally improperly granted. —Here the expression is, “ improper grants land which may easily be applied to lands formerly granted by the crown, and indeed to the title of every person’s estate. This lure is held out, unquestionably, for the purpose of gaining the poorer sort of people. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11986 These are two striking passages in this address
SOLICITORGENERAL 11988 Gentlemen, you will also recollect, that, if what Lynam stated upon that subject is untrue, there could have been no difliculty whatever in contradicting bim; and, therefore, whatever reflections may be thrown upon him, or upon spies, or any other persons, you must believe that to be true; because, when a person is accused of having concurred in a transaction, by evidence, which is capable of being contradicted by a great number of persons, and not one of them is called to contradict that evidence, you must give credit necessarily to the accusation; and its not being contradicted, when it might be so easily contradicted, if false, gives it a confirmation beyond all doubt. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11989 This address statcs, that, ‘“‘ Numerous other reforms would undoubtedly take place, even in the first session of a parliament, so elected, dependent only on their electors, the people, untorn therefore by faction, undivided by party, uncorrupted by ministry, and uninfluenced but by the public good
SOLICITORGENERAL 11991 It is a remarkable thing in the history of the constitution of this country, that the time when the liberties of the country were most in danger, from the over-bearing influence of the crown, was immediately after the close of the civil wars between the Houses of York and Lancaster, when almost all the great families in the country had been extinguished by the accidents attending those wars; many falling in the field, and on the scaffold, and many being ruined by confiscations; so that, according to my recollection, when Henry 7th ascended the throne, there remained only about thirty peers in the parliament. And he, wisely, seeing the advantage which this accident gave him, scarcely added at all to the number of peers, the consequence of which was, that there was not that middle body to stand between the crown and the people, and all the dangerous exercise of power, every thing which Ted to that which was afterwards done by Charles ist, will be found to have originated in the government of Henry 7th, aud bis son Henry 8th, whilst the peerage of the country was in that situation, that, from the number of the members of which it was composed, they did not form that barrier which it was intended they should orm. ‘ 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11992 Gentlemen, I have now, at a length to which I certainly did not intend to go, com mented upon the establishment of the London Corresponding Society, upon its addresses, and upon its constitution ; and it seems to me, that this alone would be very sufficient to show, that the object and the intention, that the formed resolution fer I think we do it injustice when we call it intention, o opinion, or conception), that the formed ravlution of these societies, that is, of the leadng members of them, was, to establish, in ths country, a democratical form of government; a form of government more democratical than that which ever existed in any other counuy —unless we conceive that it exists now i France—utterly incompatible with, and therfore necessarily destroying, the monarchal part of our government; and therefore, als, a clear demonstration of a tonspiracy depose the king; and any act, taken in pr suance of that conspiracy, is unquestionably an act of high treason. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11993 Gentlemen, in the course of these transrtions, there was one very artful proceeding; which was, I believe, ohserved upon by the attorney general. The society for Corstte tional Information met every Friday; the delegates of the Corresponding Society me every Thursday. The advantage was, tx Society for Constitutional Information were to hold themselves up as persons of reset: able situations; all violent resolutions wer therefore to begin, either in the country 9cieties, or in Scotland, or they were to in the London Corresponding Society— committee of delegates of the London Caresponding Society, came to resolutions 0 the Thursday, which, on-the Friday, they generally communicated to the Society , Constitutional Information. And here another strong'proof, how perivetly aristocrabt the government of this democratical soaely was. For a measure was to be resolved up2. first, by their secret committee ; then to the committee of delegates, andupon there; which committee of delesies necessarily acted, in a certain degree, bhodly upon the reports of the committee of com pondence, because they did mot know all hecorrespondence that passed ; being adoptthere, they were not to wait for an adophod of it’ by the rest of the members of te society ; it was to be reported, indeed, athe different division meeti but that might not have happened till the resolution| taken place; because. those division were upon the different days, which were mast convenient for the different divisions to me and yet, on the Friday, without any referee to the division meetings, the resolutions to be carried to the Constitutional Society, athe proceedings of the London Co Society. wa 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11994 Gentlemen, that letter from Sheffield, oe I before adverted to, I now see is dale 15th of October, 1792; from the editer 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11995 Patriot ; and there, speaking of the establishment of several socicties, it says—“ We beg leave also to throw in our mite of commendation, of the laudable spirit which you have evinced in your intention to address the National Convention of France, and ho sincerely, that your example will be followed by all the societies in the two kingdoms; Ireland having already set the example— then it says ‘ we hope your society will also give them (a particular society, which is named, the Stockport Society) “ your sanction, advice, and support; as it will be in vain for 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11996 ’ the friends of reform, to contend with the tremendous host of enemies they have to encounter,—clearly showing, that they considered that avery large propurtion indeed (and some of the other letters expressly stating, that a vast majority) of the people, were against them. It goes on—“ We clearly foresee, that Scotland will soon take the lead of this country—(I wish you, gentlemen, to observe this) “ and conceive it will be necessary to take the greatest care, that an universal communication should be constantly kept up, between the several societies, however distant, and that all should determine to act upon the same principle, and move together, as near as may be in regular and activeunison. ’Twas by this method, France becume so thoroughly united, and we ought never to lose sight of it. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11997 Now, can any government subsist, which has within its bosom a number of societies acting as a corporate body upon those principles? What, gentlemen, 18 a government, anda state, but a corporation 
SOLICITORGENERAL 11999 Ompany, for instance, is a corporation, by means of which our possessions in the East Indies, to a certain degree, are governed. That is a corporation, acting in subordination to the great corporation of this country; which, lord Coke says, is composed of King, Lords, and Commons, of which the King is thehead. He calls it, expressly, the great Corporation of this country. Then here, upon the principle of incorporation, are a great Humber o! societies, united together, for the Purpose of moving together in regular active unison ; for the purpose of furming themselves Into one state, which should act together, upon one principle; a sort of combination of states, like the United States of America, which still have one regular constitution, which regulates the whole government. A country may bear a corporation or state within it, which is in avowed subordination to it, such as the different corporations in this kingdom ; because it has a power to regulate their actions by the proceedings of the courts of justice. If the exceed their power in any degree, it calls them in question, and they may, if they go to certain lengths, forfeit the privileges granted to them. Such corporations are completely within the power of the government, and are capable of existing consistently with the safety of it. But such corporations as these, cannot exist in any government, with safety to that government. It is, imperium in imperio, which is inconsistent with any government. This was the very principle upon which the National Assembly in France, in 1791, passed a decree against the Jacobin clubs, which unfortunately for that country, was never put in execution. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12000 We object to these socicties, “ you are acting as a corporation—you are taking upon yourselves the firmness, union, and manner of acting, which belongs to a corporate}bady, which makes you therefore a state within a state, and renders the existence of your society, totally incompatible with public peace. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12001 The celebrated specch made by one of the most distinguished members of the French constituent assembly, Mons. D’Andre, a man of considerable ability, states this in so clear and plain a light, that it must bring conviction to the mind of every man, that the government of a country cannot exist, if there subsist within it, such a set of associated and affiliated societies, acting as a corporate body, in opposition to that government, in the manner in which these socicties proposed to do. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12002 In all these transactions, the prisoner unquestionably has borne a very distinguished part; and you will find that his letters, if you take the trouble of referring to them, certainly show his privity with every part of the transaction. A privity which must necessatily also be inferred from his situation of secretary, with every part of the transactions. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12003 Gentlemen, you recollect a letter of the prisoner, to Mr. Vaughan, of the 9th of April, 1792, in which he particularly states, in what manner he conceived the minds of the people were to be acted upon; the manner in which they were to be allured and deluded; and advises Mr. Vaughan to collect some choice flowers from several publications which he refers to. You will recollect, also, that the gentleman to whom that letter was addressed, although present in court, has not been called to explain any of the transactions which have taken place. That letter was very early in the transactions stated tu you, and shows most clearly, and plainly, that the prisoner was at the very foundation and root of every thing—He was not a perf0n who was deluded and led away—He wassend a deputation to that meeting, I havem one whose whole heart was in the cause, and who was contriving all the delusions which are imputed to the persons who were concerned in these transactions. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12004 These things having been done, and the, people having been by such means considerably set against the constitution established in the country, the leaders of these societies began to consider what measures they should take. There had been for some time in Scotland, a number of societies, which had been acting upon the same principles, and holding a correspondence with the London Corresponding Society; and these societies in Scotland had formed a meeting, called a Convention of Delegates, which had met early in the year 1793, and had then adjourned, I think to November 1793. These ople, when they originally met, appear to Fave had exactly the views which were steted by my friend who last addressed you, as the views of the London Societies
SOLICITORGENERAL 12006 During this interval, you will observe that avery private and particular correspondence took place. There isa letter from Skirvin to Hardy, of the 25th of May, 1793
SOLICITORGENERAL 12008 This letter of the 5th of October, 17, having been written by Mr. Hardy, a lena came trom Mr. Skirving to him, in an offical way, Seating that those deputies might i sent
SOLICITORGENERAL 12010 These are the instructions given by te London Corresponding Society, which wer signed by the prisoner : “ The articles of instruction given to citizen Joseph Gem. delegate from the London Corresponding S
SOLICITORGENERAL 12011 that this letter speaks of the writer's disposi-ciety to the ensuing convention in Ediobergh, tion to unite in one assembly of commisfor the purpose of obtaining a thorough pusioners, from all the countries in the worldliamentary reform. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12012 for the purpose of reform
SOLICITORGENERAL 12014 “ First—He shall on no account depat a private correspondence between Mr. Hardy, from the original object and principles of th the prisoner, and Mr. Skirving, who had been secretar. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12015 Society; namely, the obtaining annual prrations! 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12016 to that meeting of delegates in| liaments, and universal suffrage, by 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12017 Scotland, which had never thought of assum-and lawful means
SOLICITORGENERAL 12019 tion of the People ;’—an appellation and character which, for the purposes stated by my learned friend, were totally unnecessary. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12020 On the 5th of October, 1793, Mr. Hardy writes a letter to Mr. Skirving, in which he speaks of the trials of Muir and Palmer, who had heen prosecuted for seditious conduct, and then says, he General Convention which you mention, eppears to Mr. Margarot, to whom alone I have communicated your fetter, (the letter to which this refers, seems to have been dated the 2nd of October; but it has not been fuund) “ appears to Mr. Margarot and myself to be a very excellent measure; and, as such, I could wish you, without delay, to communicate it officially to our society, without any ways mentioning that you had written to me privately. —I mentioned this letter before
SOLICITORGENERAL 12022 The other instructions are, “ He is directed to support the representatives in parliamncst oug! by their constituents. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12023 “ Thirdly—That the election 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12024 Toke of deri your official letter, you should require us toought to be restored to the people. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12025 i 7 Fourthly—That juries ought to be chosen lot. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12026 a Me Fifthly—That active means ought to it be used, to make every man acquainted ¢, with the rights and duties of eure wl 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12027 “ etathy—thet the liberty of the press must at all events be supported ; and that the publication of political truths can never be criminal. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12028 Now, gentlemen, you will observe that the four last of these have no connexion whatever with a parliamentary refurm
SOLICITORGENERAL 12030 When persons talk of rational and lawful means, you must of necessity understand them to use those words in the sense, and according to the construction which they themselves put upon the words. They say, that their delegate should on no account depart from the principles of the socicty; namely, the obtaining annual parliaments and universal suffrage, ‘by rational and lawful means—In the seventh instruction, they state what they conceive to be lawful means; namely, “ Thatit is the duty of the people to Tesist any act of parliament repugnant to the original prineiples of the constitution, as would be every attempt to prohibit associations for the purpose of reform
SOLICITORGENERAL 12032 It seems to me, therefore, that these articles of instruction, upon the very face of them, import a determination to resist the constituted power and authority of the country, ifa resistance to this constituted power was necessary to carry into execution their obtaining annual parliaments, and universal suffrage, by rational and lawful means ; and that they considered resistance to the power of the constituted authorities, as lawful means to effect that purpose
SOLICITORGENERAL 12034 Pope of 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12035 ‘most explicitly declare their resolution to maintain the object which they had in view, by what they call rational and lawful means ; which they have sufticiently shown jo be such acts as are in direct opposition to the constituted authority of the country, and, consequently, acts of rebellion. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12036 Gentlemen, when this again is compared with the report of their committee cf constitution; and when I have shown that their avowed principle is rebellion against every government which is not constituted in the manner in which they say a government ought to be constituted, it is impossible to give any other construction to these words, “rational and lawful means, than that which I have given; namely, such means as, by the exercise of their reason, unprejudiced, they were taught to believe were lawful means ; among which they included the right of the. minority to resist even a vast majority of the country, if that majority attempted to withhold from them those rights which they considered as indefeasible civil rights: namely, a right to shure in the whole of the government of their country, as well executive as legislative. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12037 Gentlemen, the instructions which are given to the delogates of the Society for Conj Stitutional Information, are couched, unques‘tionably, in much more cautious language.They contain no such resolution with respectto resistance, as is contained in the resolutions of the London Corresponding Society
SOLICITORGENERAL 12039 Gentlemen, you will recollect that one of the resolutions of this Scotch Convention went directly upon the foundation of that ine struction ; going, indeed, considerably beyond it; and when I am told that persons who send delegatcs, are to be considered as giving to those delegates no other authority than what they specifically gave them, I admit ; that to a certain degree, that is true; but then, the moment they know that these delegates go beyond their authority, they ought, unquestionably, at least, to disavow them
SOLICITORGENERAL 12041 Then what were the proceedings of this as
SOLICITORGENERAL 12042 4.1L 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12043 sembly when it met
SOLICITORGENERAL 12045 Af ithad been described as a meeting of the societies of Sheffield—of the societies of London—of the societies of Norwich, and so on; describing them in this way, there would have een a possibility of ascertaining of whom they were composed
SOLICITORGENERAL 12047 The purpose suggested by the learned and 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12048 [igs ingenious counsel, is one that cannot have been within their view. It would have been totally inconsistent, even with their ovn principles, to have pretended to convey to the parliament of this country, by means of the opinions of a number of aslestes of the diffe. rent societies; the opinions of the pes the persons so delegated having clearly no right whatever to state, that what they resolved upon, was any thing more than the opinion of a variety of clubs, or rather of some of the several individual members who composd those clubs
SOLICITORGENERAL 12050 Mr. Yorke said, and truly, that the conver tion at Edinburgh, had declared itself a cot vention of the people, before the people were Prepared to acknowledge them as such; that they had thereby split upon a rock, been able to carry their intentions intoexect tion, and had therefore failed ; that they to have addressed the public at large up? the subject, and thus to have pre the public mind; and if they found the ready to support them in the charecter convention, which they meant to assume, to declare themselves such, and to assume the power and superiorities, and all the & thoritiesof a convention of the people. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12051 Gentlemen this assembly of delegates of clubs, having proceeded in this manner, thought proper, not only to call itself a Convention of the People, a British Convention of the People, necessarily including the whole island, but the BRITISH CONVENTION, ONE AND INDIVISIBLE, and to date their transactions, the first year of the British Convention, One and Indivisible. What could this be meant to express, but that they considered themselves as the whole people of Great Britain, united, by delegation, in one common cause, not to be separated—not to be divided, until they had completely and effectually cartied into execution those purposes which the several delegates carried with them into this assembly 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12053 What was the argument which Mr. Gibbs pressed so much upon you? He did not deny, that the acts of his client were extremely blameable ; very seditious ; but thty do not, said he, amount to high treason. And why did he assert, that they did not amount to high treason? ‘“ Because the evidence, taken together, does not show that the prisoner had conceived, within his mind, the guilty purpose and intent of destroying the government of the country, deposing the king, and establishing a democratic government in its stead. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12054 In the prosecutions carried on in Scotland. against the members of the British Convention, Margarot, Gerrald, Skirving, and the rest, the full evidence was not possessed by those who prosecuted ; they could not establish, by evidence, that degree of criminality inthe minds of the parties, which is essentially necessary for the purpose of constituting the crime of high treason ; and, therefore, No blame is upon that account imputable, as I contend, to the courts in Scotland, supposing the act to be high treason. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12055 The courts there are accused of having heen over rigorous in their sentences
SOLICITORGENERAL 12057 The question which was afterwards principally agitated, was, whether there existed, in the law of Scotland, a distinct crime, denominated by the law of Scotland, “ Sedition, which the law of England considers as a mere misdemeanor, of different degrees of heinousness, till it amounts to the crime of high treason. Butif there did exist that distinction between treason and sedition, in the law of Scotland (and sedition, in the ancient law of England, seems to have been considered as a distinct crime, in very remote times), and if sedition in Scotland was capable of being punished as such, a very severe punishment must be the proper punishment for a crime which arose to that height, that the only question which could possibly be made upon it was, whether it did, or did not, amount to the heinous crime of high treason. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12058 Gentlemen, the resolutions and proceedings of this society in Scotland are very extraordinary; they begin with declaring themselves the British Convention, and their several proceedings have been read to you, in which itappears that they corresponded with the prisonerat the bar, and with several other persons. It also appears that they adopted several of the most seditious proceedings which have been had in this country, and that they had reports made to them of the state of the societies in England, as well as in Scotland, the object of which was to justify their declaring themselves a convention of the people. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12059 It appears in the proceedings of the 6th of November, 1793, that one of the Edinburgh delegates having moved that the London delegates should state the situation of their societies, citizen Margarot answered, ‘that the 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12060 “ I apprehend that this statement of the question is not strictly correct. The doctrines asserted by the counsel for the crown and sanctioned by the high court of ssticianys in the cases of Maurice Margarot and the other members of the British Convention, respecting the crime of sedition, have been much canvassed and by many distinguished lawyers impugned ; the true grounds on which the propriety of the decision of the court of justiciary has been questioned, will be found in the ingenious and powerful arguments which were delivered by the very learned and able persons who disputed the relevancy of the indictment in the case of Joseph Gerrald. Sce the speeches of Mr. Gillies and Mr. Laing in this Collection, vol. 38, pp. 827. 69. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12061 societies in London were very nuincrous, though sometimes tluctuating—in some parts of England whole towns are reformers; in Sheflicld and environs there are fifty thousand,"—thouch it has been shown to you that the society there never consisted of more than six hundred. thirty socicties in one. If, said Margarot, “ we could get a convention of England and Scotland called, we might represent six or seven hundred thousand inales, which is a majority of all the adults in the kingdom, and ministry would not dare to refuse us our rights. It was in consequence of this representation that they thought fit to give themselves the title which [have stated to you. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12062 Gentlemen, you will recollect that in their Proceedings they went to the extent of making a new union between England and Scotland; an union which should perfectly remove all boundaries of distinction between ‘the two kingdoms. Whether that would or would not be a wise thing, may certainly ad- 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12063 mit of a great deal of question; but there is a contract existing between the two countries upon the subject, and the persons assembled at this meeting, take upon themselves, as far as their authority goes, to break through that contract, assuming a power of a most extraordinary kind; not only sovereign power, but Sovereigu pene tending to the destruction of a solenin league between the two nations, at One time separate, distinct, and independent sovereign powers. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12064 They resolved to publish an address to the ; 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12065 public, and a committee. was appointed to consider the means, and to draw up the outlines of a plan of general union and co-operation between the two nations in their generalpursuit of a thorough reform of parliament,They which was unanimously agreed to. likewise had a committee to draw up rules for their internal government, and tickets forand they resolved, that this; 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12066 admission ; should be a standing law of this, and all future conventions, looking clearly in prospect, toa regular and constant establishment, and not to an accidental establishment, for a particular purpose. ‘Tisere are several other pro-ceedings which deserve your attention, but they are infinitely too numerous for me, now, to observe upon ; such as proposing a general fast, and a variety of other procecdings, which clearly shew, that they considered themselves as an assembly of a very different description from that of delegates of the several societies, met simply for the purpose of petitioning parliament fora reform in parliament. They received contributions; patriotic gifts and donations; they adopted, in all their proceedings those expressions which had been used in the French Convention; they talked of their own assembly, as the House; of taking the sense of the House; and several other things must have occurred to you, in the course of their proceedings, if you looked at them, or 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12067 “In Norwich there are , 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12068 attended to them, when they were read, by which you must be convinced, they had in view an establishment, upon principles ver different from those on which a meeting a delegates of societies, for the purpose of ob-taining a reform in parliament, ought to have been formed. You likewise recollect the pains they tok to enlighten the Highlanders of Scotland. It is impossible not to consider the terms they used for this purpose as an incitemcat, directly, to the Highlanders to arm themselres. You recollect the circumstance of a picture of a Highlander, armed with his broad sed and target ; and there are other circumstuce of the same tendency, which are not now ix mediately and distinctly inmy memory. There is also this resolution : “ That it be recommended to the different societies throughout the country, to copy the Bill of Rights into their minute books, as the ground of their proceedings, in order to prevent improper constructions upun their conduct, a friends to reform. This recommenistis sccins to me to be precisely upon that princt ple of deception which I have before nouced. There could be no purpose whatever, for which this resolution was to be inserted m their minute books, but to deceive—to hold out a peaceable and quiet reformation, whilst they meant the reverse. If they really 3 proved of the Bill of Rights, had it not beea universally derided in the books of whxb they had testified the strongest approbation, — in a work, in which it was called a bill of wrongs, and treated with the utmost disregard and contempt? But it served extremely wel for the purpose; not only to cover the proceedings of the different societies, but to mislead those societies, and to tell them, that the Bill of Rights authorized the a sembling a couvention of the people. peuple in the different counties were told that the Bill of Rights was the foundation all their proceedings, andthat therefore theyshould insert it in all their books; and whenthey were told, that it was lawful to assemblea convention of the people, they were ledto believe, that the Bill of Rights madeit lw ful for them to do so. These circumstances tend to show the means by which the poot cople, who were engaged with them, bare Beets led and deceived, like that unfortusate man who was examined, Hill. He told yoo that he had nothing in view but the constr tion of the House of Commons, as it was 2 the year 1688; there being, in effect, no al. teration after that time, except the 7 act, and some other acts, which tended rather to the benefit of the people, than to their 2 jury, in any way whatever. Lo. Then comes their famous resolutions f assembling a Convention of Emergency, & which a blank was left in the minutes, which they came to, on the 28th of Nose ber, I798
SOLICITORGENERAL 12070 Vhese resolutions, and a declaration accomPanying them, for which a blank was left in the minutes, and which were not to be inserted till after the end of their proceedings, Were in the fullowing words: “ Resolved, that the following declarations and resolutions be serted at the end of our minutes : “ That us convention, considering the calamitous consequences of any act of the legislature, which may tend to deprive the whole, or any part of the people, of their undoubted right to meet, either by themselves, or by delegation, to discuss any matter relative to their common interest, whether of a public or private nature, and holding the same to be totally inconsis‘ent with the first principles and safety of society, and also subversive of our known and acknowledged Constitutional Liberties, do hereby declare, before God and the World Si —which, you recollect, is the solemn manner in which an oath is taken, in Scotland, by persons ofa particular description—“ that we shall follow the wholesome example of former times, by paying no regard to any act which shall militate against the constitution of our country, and shall continue to assemble and consider of the best means by which we can accomplish a real representation of the people, and annual election, until compelled to desist by superior force. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12071 Gentlemen, what is this but a declaration, that they would resist force by force; that they would resist, unquestionably, inferior force; and that it should be superior force only that should compel them to desist : « And we do resolve, that the first notice given for the introduction of a Convention Bill or any bill of a similar tendency to that passed in Ireland, in the last session of their parliament, or any bill for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act
SOLICITORGENERAL 12073 What is this but a declaration, that, if they were compelled by superior force, to discontinue their meetings at Edinburgh, where they were then sitting, they would not, therefore, cease to be aconvention of the people, but that they would repair immediately to such place as the Secret Committee should appoint; that the first seven members, who should meet at such place, should have power to declare the sitting permanent, should constitute a convention immediately, and the moment they amuunted to twenty-one, they should proceed to business? If they had been compelled by superior force, by the authority and power of the government of the country, to desist from their meeting at Edinburgh and had assembled themselves again, in another part of the country, what could that assembly meet for, but for the purpose of evading the effect of that superior force, which miglit have dispersed them at Edinburgh, and of acting in that place, at which they should afterwards assemble with more effect, because supported with that degree of force which they might conceive sufficient to protect them against the existing constituted government of the country. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12074 They likewise resolved,—“ That each delegate, immediately on his return home, do convene his constituents, and explain to them the necessity of electing a delegate or delegates ;" which I conceive must necessarily mean something like the constitution of the French National Assembly, who have persons to fill immediately, without any delay, the seats which become vacant; “ and of establishing a fund, without delay, against any of these emergencies, for his or their expense, and that they do instruct the said delegate or delegates, to hold themselves ready to depart at one hour’s warning
SOLICITORGENERAL 12076 Now, gentlemen, this was communicated most completely to Mr. Hardy, by a letter, written to him by Mr. Margarot, on the 11th of December, 1793; and Margarot expressly states, that the convention had declured itself permanent ; by which he must have meant, that the effect of this declaration was, as it obviously was, to make the convention a perTanent assembly, the declaration of permanency being one of the most important parts of the proceedings of the French National Convention, at the same time it declared itself a National Convention. The means which it took for the purpose, being that of destroying, at least in the opinion of the people, all authoritative collection of revenue, whenever the assembly should be dispersed, and authorizing the collection, so long only as the a sembly should continue sitting. And gentle. men, you will recollect, in the history of you own country, the same sort of permanency, under the authority of an act o' parliamea, was the means by which the parliament, 0 the reign of Charles ist, finally destroyed the authority of that monarch. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12077 This letter of Margarot to Hardy has like wise a direct reference to the appointrent a the sitting of this convention, by the Secret Committee, in some other place, in case thes should be dispersed. It states, that the qovention had declared itself permanent; by which it must have adverted to this resolutza, which you will see is, in effect, a declaratsa of permanency; and it likewise says, te are to sit in some other part of the country, not yet declared, in case of their i which must refer (I am quoting only fon memory, for I have not the letter in my hand) ‘to that part of the resolutions, by which it was made of the instructions b the Secret Committee, without delay, to irs place at which the convention should mee, in case of its dispersion, or under other circum stances, in which they thought it proper tha the Convention of Emergency should meet. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12078 Gentlemen, I beg pardon for stating thi letter. Iam told, that, by some accident, has not been given in evidence, therefore you will lay that quite out of your consideraton You will recollect, however, that, in pursuance of these resolutions, the convention actualy did refuse to disperse, until compelled by 2 superior force; and this is proved by 2 letter of Margarot, in which he states, that Gemald and himself were pulled out of the chai; and upon the cross-examination of Ross by Mr. Erskine, the same fact was stated; 9 that they not only came to the resolution, bat they really acted upon it, to a certain degree. But the other parts ‘of these resolutions when considered with reference to the whol, have very extraordinary consequences; you will observe that this convention was meet as a Convention of Emergency, at2 cret place, to be appointed by a Secret mittee, not only in case of its being compe! to desist from its proceedings, sitting at burgh, by superior force, but also in sm other cases; particularly, as soon as ay 0 tice should be given for the introduction of convention bill. As soon as any meaxlt should appear to be taken by the governmest of the country for the purpose o on their meeting, which they should might be likely to have effect, they were assemble in that secret place to be appot! by the committee of emergency, remos themselves from Edinburgh, in which a they might not think they should be 9 to resist the powers of ae non as Le more distant place. ‘This they extend0 a the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act to the admission of foreign troops ; a report having been very industriously circulated of an intention to bring overa great number of foreign troops into this country. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12079 But they declare also, that this convention shall meet as a Convention of Emergency in another event; that is, in case of invasion. Iam sure I recollect the letter having been read which informed Hardy of the secret resolutions, because I recollect that the words “in case of an invasion are omitted in that letter. But Margarot states in that letter that the convention has done that which he does not think it safe to communicate by letter: “ The convention proceed with great spirit ; we sit daily; and last week we came to aresolution which we fancy will give pleasure to every friend to reform. As the minutes are to be printed, we will at present only give you the heads of it; viz—That should any attempt be made by government for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus bill, the introduction of a convention bill, or the landing of foreign troops in Great Britain or Ireland, the delegates are immediately to assemble in convention at a certain place (the appointment of which is left with a secret committee) ; that when seven delegates shall be thus assembled they shall declare themselves permanent, and when their number amounts to twenty-one they shall proceed to business. Thus, you sec, we are providing against what may happen. This is a letter written to Mr. Hardy himself.“ Thus you see, we are providing against what may happen. Then the letter proceeds to state— “ Letters convey but very imperfectly, and with no great degree of safety, what we might wish to inform each other of. And ina subsequent letter of the 8th of Deccmber, 1793, you will find he says—“ Not daring any onger to trust tu the post, we send you all these papers in a parcel ; what papers these were does not appear. “ You will be so good as to make us acquainted with their sate arrival. Gerrald wishes to get to London as S00n as possible; he will communicate that " which cannot so fully be expressed by letter. You may consider this as a private letter ; but you may read such parts of it as you think Proper to any member of the society, especially where it may be productive of good. Then here are resolutions come to which they are afraid to enter on the minutes of their proceedings ; which they are afraid to communicate entire in their correspondence between each other; which they Icave, therefore, to be communicated by word of mouth by one of the parties present: and even the very letter, thus cautiously written, is written to Mr. Hardy as aa private letter, of which he might communicate such parts as he might think proper to any member of the society, leaving to him the selection of the matter, and the parts he might so communicate;perhaps, according to the degree of fervor in the public cause he might conceive a particular member to have, and the particular confidence he might have in the discretion of that member; and this is to be especially where it may be productive of good ; showing most clearly by this that the prisoner was the active means by which the whole of this conspiracy was to be carricd on; the person with whom Margarot (who was then acting as agent of the society at Edinburgh) was to correspond, in whose discretion he was wholly to confide, and who was to communicate to the other members such partsonly of this correspondence—mutilated as it is, from the fear of danger that may attend acommunication hy letter —to communicate such parts of it only as he thought proper. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12080 Gentlemen, I stated that it was my intention to advert to that part of the minutes which followed the blank where these resolutions ought to have been entered, if they had been entered according to the daily and the ordinary course of their proceedings. After stating the solemn manner in which these resolutions were passed—the very solemnity with which they were passed showing the importance which those persons attached to them, and the omission of the word invasion in the communication still more strongly showing the importance which they attached to that particular word—“ Citizen Margarot read and proposed the following motion— “that a secret committee of three with the secretary be appointed to determine the place where such convention of emergency shalk meet ; that such place shall remuin a secret with them and with the secretary of this convention ; and that each delegate shall, at the breaking up of the present session, be entrusted witb a sealed letter containing the name of the place of meeting—that this letter shall be delivered unopened to his constituents, the receipt of which shall be acknowledged by a letter to the secretary—preserved in the same state until the period shall arrive at which it shall be deemed necessary for the delegates to set off. So that the place of meeting of this convention was not only to be determined upon by a secret committee of three (a very small number), but they also resolved that it should remain secret with them and the secretary; and that at the breaking up of the then present session (if during the session it should be necessary to make use of this cominittee of emergency at a secret place) each member should carry with him, ina sealed letter, the name of the place of meeting; that this should be delivered unopened to his constituents; that the receipt should be acknowledged by a letter to the secretary; and that the scaled letter should remain in the same state till the period should arrive at which it should be deemed necessary for the delegates to set off. So it was not to be known to any one member of the society, except the secret committee and their secretary, where that place was to be. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12081 Now, gentlemen, bave such proceedings as these the least semblance of a design to petition parliament only for the purpose of parliamentary reform? It is utterly absurd to give any credit to stich a suggestion. And, gentlemen, you will likewise recollect that my learned friend, Mr. Gibbs, admitted, that if you could not give his construction to their proceedings, you must necessarily give the construction which we put upon them —that if you could not take the colour he gave you; if you could not persuade yourselves that the only object of this meeting was quictly and peaceably to prepare petitions to the parliament, praying that that reform in the election of representatives might be carried into execution which they pretended they had proposed upon the wild plan, as I venture to call it, of the duke of Richmond, or any other specific plan they might think proper to adopt ; if the object of their mecting was any thing beyond that, it was impossible for him to justify it, though he should not admit it to receive all the attributes which we have givenit. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12082 The minutes of this day’s sitting refer toa proceeding which, I think, distinctly had in view that which afterwards appears in other parts of the proceedings—the supporting a convention by force. It is idle to say that a convention of this kind could have any effect whatever unless supported by force; and therefore it is not necessary to show you that any proceedings had taken place for the purpose; for when it is of necessity that in order to carry the thing into execution it should be supported by force, it is not necessary to show you that proceedings had been had for the purpose of creating that force. If persons orm a plan (such as was fabricated for the bishop of Rochester, and several persons of high rank) to bring in the Pretender—If that had been a real paper signed with the names of those persons who it was supposed had signed it (it turned out to be a wicked contrivance of two villanous men); but if it had been a real paper, it would have been an act of high treason, though they had procured:no force. But the moment they put their hands to that paper, which demonstrated their intention to conspire to overturn the government of the country ; demonstrating that intention by an overt act, namely, the puting their hands to that paper; the crime of high treason was complete, though they could not possibly have carried it into eftect but by raising an armed force, and notwithstanding they had taken no steps to raising that armed force. But here you have several traits of the tendency of this society to raise an armed force, even in the proceedings of this convention. They resolved —“ that a fund should be raised by subscription for defraying the expense of small patriotic publications to be distributed in the Highlands; that every publication should bear the figure of a Michldad-cyn in full dress, with target and broad sword to attract the attention of Highland-men: no publication to cost more than half a penns For what purpose could such publicat.. possibly be distributed, but to excite m. people m the Highlands to armthemselye' —What has the figure of a Highlander in iu dress, with target and broad sword, to do wi: a quiet, peaceable petition to reform pani ment? It has no connexion with it in te world. It has a clear connexion with acx vention which was intended to be suppene. by force of arms; but has no possible couzeion whatever with that which my lease friend says was the object of this conveutx. namely, simply and only petitioning pow ment. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12083 They propose, also, to appoint a commie of observation in London, for the purpox observing what was done there. What pox. upon that occasion? Margarot says—“ th: there was no occasion for a committee of tt: nature in London, as there were several the sand people in that city upon the look. It was accordingly agreed, that the comm tee should request the London commitet correspondence to give the earliest inteigence of what passed in parliament. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12084 Gentlemen, you will recollect that wu committee so referred to, was the Secret (ca mittee of the London Corresponding Socie's: which Secret Committee was by this 1e lution converted into a committee of obser tion for the British Convention, for the pz pose of giving information of every tit which should pass in parliament, sod London, upon this subject. That clea shows the connexion and dependence of ta very convention upon the London Core ponding Society, in the hands of its leades: videlicct, the Secret Committee, and those directed that Secret Committeewhich shes that the whole was really, and in effect, operation of those societies in London; a that the proceedings at Edinburgh were proceedings of persons who were only al: as the puppets of those in London. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12085 You will recollect the manner in which th Highlanders were to be enlighteas’—ty representations to them of their situs aggravated and false in the highest dese You will likewise recollect, that throught the proceedings of this convention they1" attempting to establish, by motions, te" tions, and soon, every thing that was oet sary to be established for the purpox convention actually meeting as a convents of the people, upon the principles upon “ we have proved they intended to act they were preparing to publish the nalun unalienable, and imprescriptible rights of and that a committee was appointed for that purpuse. To show that application to parliament was not within the considerativa of" of those who were at least the leading m bers in this business, or indeed the 930 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12086 of the members of the convention, a nouol for drawing out a scroil of a petition 0 parler ment was read on the of Novembes 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12087 1798, the tenth day’s sitting, and the order of the day was moved upon it. Now this isa meeting which my learned friends would attempt to persuade you was solely for the purpose of petitioning parliament, and one of the first things they do is, to move the order of the day upon a motion for petitioning parTiament. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12088 You recollect, eiilenets the manner in which they treated distinctions of rank in the case of lurd Daer—in the use of the word gentleman—the insipidity of the term gentleman, and the propriety of the term citizen— and a thousand other circumstances, which abow throughout the principles which the members of this convention meant to adopt, to carry into effect as far as they could You will recollect what Mr. Skirving said in the course of the proceedings. Upon a motion that was made he insisted “ that it was prpce on all occasions to take the opinion of the primary societies, and he considered the convention as only a committee of the people. So that Mr. Skirving, in the very Proceedings of this conventiun, was acting upon the grand principles of all those rights of man—that every form of government to be established among them was to be considered only as a committee of the people, and that the sense of the people was to be taken upon all acea-ions. Principles which the French Rational assemblies have constantly found it impossible to carry into execution; and you Toust particularly recollect that they refused to carry them into execution upon the most important subject which could come before them, namely, the death of their king. For when some of the leading members—some of the must enlightened—probably with a view of saving the king, wished to refer the consideration of tha' question to the primary assemblies in different parts of the country, it was negatived, on the ground of the impussi Ddility of carrving it into real and effectual axectition ; and because, if it could have been earried effectually into. execution, it must have tended w destroy the Convention itself. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12089 Gentlemen, you will recollect likewise, in the course of the debate which took place upon what they termed the unprecedented infringement of the liberty of the press, and the arbitrary sentence of judge Wilson against Mr. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12090 ; Holt. Mr. Justice Wilson being a man whom all those who are of the same profession must revember with deep regret and concern, and must acknowledge that he was one of the worthiestand the most upright men that ever graced the bench. gentlemen, in taking notice of these things, which they consider as abuses, Mr. Margarot observes— “It is unnecessary to attempt to lop off the branches while we are endeavouring to: and there is a blank, Endeavouring to what? How can you fill up that blank 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12092 Gentlemen, I might go through the whole of the minutes of the proceedinys of this convention ; there are several other passages which equally meritattention; and it is evident that throughout the whole of their proceedings they contemplated the idea of acting by force of their own authority, supported by the force of so many of the people at large as they could prevail upon to sustain their measures ; that they looked to the attainment of their objects by those means; and probably also by the assistance of that foreign power which the two societies in London, the Constitutional Society, and the London Corresponding Society, had, in the latter end of the year 1792, clearly invoked—by means, probably, of the assistance of that power, for you cannot give any other interpretation to the words,“ In the case of an invasion. They clearly looked to the atainment of their ends cither by their own force alone, or by that force assisted by such foreign force. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12093 This convention being dispersed by the superior force of the constituted government, after that resistance which the members of the convention thought proper to give, and. which necessarily was only a formal resiatance, because they had not prepared measures for any more effectual resistance—what .was done 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12095 Gentlemen, the first proceedings which seem to have been directly taken for that purpose were the resolutions of the Constitutional Society, on the 17th of January 1794; but previous to that time a letter was written by the prisoner, on the 10th of January, to Mr. Adams, the Secretary of the Constitutional Society, merely informing him of the anniversary dinner ef the London Corresponding Society, intended on the 20th of January, 1794. I meation that circumstance, because it drew both the Societies together in the transactions of that day. There was no reason for giving the Constitutional Society any notice of that anniversary dinner, unless for the purpose of enabling them to attend it if they thought proper. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12096 Gentlemen, I should have reminded you, that in the mean time Mr. Margarot had communicated to Mr. Hardy the circumstances which had passed at the dispersion of the British Convention, and had excited him by all means to take some spirited resolves upon the subject—Mr. Hardy in his answer to Margarot, continued to represent that the society would act as Margarot desired them to do; and he writes to the secretary of the society at Norwich, this letter, on the 11th of January, 1794.—Fellow Citizen. I have just received a letter from citizen Margarot, at Edinburgh, with some of the Edinburgh Gazetteers, (you observe this is a day after the letter he wrote to Adams, informing him of the anniversary dinner, of the 20th of January) “where you will see that citizen Skirving is found guilty, and sentenced for fourteen years transportation to Botany Bay. Margarot’s trial comes on next. He meets it with great firmness and resolution. I have No time to make comments on the proceedings; but I think our opponents are cutting their own throats as fast as they can. Now is the time for us to do something worthy of men. Why was it the time for them to do something worthy of men 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12098 What was in the mind of Mr. Hardy when he wrote that letter? What could be in his mind, but that persuasion which we see generally diffused throughout all their proceedings, that the success of the French republic, was intimately connected with the success of their own schemes; that they were all embarked in one common cause—that their hope and reliance was not upon a majority of the people of this country—for I think even the report of the committce of constitution shows, that they had no hope of obtaining that majority, but that they did hope they should obtain so large a party, that, with the success of the French republic, they should be able finally to accomplish their object—at least they thought that that was the time to strike. ‘ Now is the time for us tu do something worthy of men—the brave defenders of liberty South of the English Channel, are performing wonders; driving their enemies before them, like chaff before the whirlwind. The letter proceeds, “ The London Corresponding Society is to have a general meeting, and an anniversa y dinner, on Monday the 20th instant, at the Glohe-lavern, Strand. Adverting, you see, in this very letter to that intended meeting, on the 20th of January; a meeting upon which my learned friends have not dared to say one single word—adverting to that meeting, as the time when it might reasonably be supposed, that something would be donc in consequence of what was mentioned in the former part of this letter. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12099 There is one passage in this letter, trifling as it may appear, which I cannot avoid observing upon; because it is a pi which, give me leave to say, a little contradicts that character which has been given of the prsoner, “I have sent you some of Marzarot'’s and Skirving’s indictment, with two copies of a pamphlet on an am the author is a member of our society—I y may putitin practice. It will be a great saving to many families—also a diminution of the revenue—for every one brewing their own beer, pay no duty for it. So that, you see, the prisoner had in his contemplation, a dimimtion of the revenue of the country, as an object which he thought proper to recommend te the person to whum he wrote at Norwich; uot simply for the purpose of saving money to families, but as it would affect the revenue of the country, and therefore, as he conceived affect those persons whom he considered his enemies, the constituted government of the country. It is a trifling circumstance, but trifling circumstances like these, which are the natural overflowing of a man’s mind, show the temper of that mind more than what he writes when he is under some degree of restraint. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12100 Gentlemen, I shall next notice to you, some resolutions of the Society for Consutetional Information, on the 17th of January, 1794, upon which, as I recollect, no observation has been made by either of the learned counsel, and which no member of the Consttutional Society has been called to explain. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12101 “ Resolved, that law ceases to be an object of obedience, whenever it becomes an instrument of oppression. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12102 “Resolved, that we recall to mind with the deepest satisfaction, the merited fate of the infamous Jefferies, once lord chief justice of England, who at the era of the glorious revolution, for the many iniquitous sentences which he had passed, was torn to pieces, by a brave and injured pcople. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12103 “ Resolved, that those who imitate his example, deserve his fate. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12104 Gentlemen, when these resolutions are considered with reference to that which follows, what is the meaning of them, bat an incitement to the people of Scotland (for you see it has reference to those cases in Scotland) to follow the example of the persons who are represented as having torm to pieces the infmous Jefferies ? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12105 “ Resolved, that the Tweed, though it may divide countries, ought not, and does not, make a separation between those principles of common sccurity, in which Englishmen, and Scutchmen, are equally interested ; that in justice in Scotland, is injustice in England; and that the safety of Englishmen is endan gered whenever their brethren of Scotland, or a conduct which entitles them to the approbation of all wise, and the support of all brave men, are sentenced to Botany Bay; 3 punishment hitherto inflicted only on felons, 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12106 Here they resolve, that the conduct of those f you approve of it, you ee ace ear ne i A 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12107 MeocRr a rR ATH ER 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12108 a em eo eTealgted in Scotland, was not only not blameaJe, but a conduct which entitled them to the approbation of all wise and the support of all brave men. The epithet, brave, is pretty striking. A peaccable and constitutional supof a man, does not require much bravery; ut a support by force, may require bravery, when therefore the approbation of all wise, and the support of all brave men, is called for, one may easily guess what it is that the per- , sons who enter into those resolutions mean.They add, 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12109 “ Resolved, that we see with regret, but see without fear, that the period is fast approaching, when the liberties of Britons mustdepend, not upon reason, to which they have long appealed, nor on their powers of expressing it, but on their firm, and undaunted resolution to oppuse tyranny, by the same meansby which it is exercised. What is that but an explicit declaration, that the time was fast approaching, when they conceived, that it! would be necessary to exert force? Whetheraccording to their ideas, force had hecomeMecessary or not, you cannot determine. It never can be an object of determination for a jury, or for any court of justice, whether the subjects of a government, are entitled tu rise in rebellion against that government, in connence of any conduct of that government. It 1s a question, which whenever it does arise, can be decided only by the sword. It never can come into discussion in a court of justice. Therefore, if the conduct of the government of the country has been ever so oppressive, a court of justice cannot permit itself to discuss, whether that occasion has arisen, which amounts to the dissulution of all government, and when therefore it can itself have no authority to act—This resolution follows. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12110 “ Resolved, that we approve of the conduct of the British Convention, who though assailled by force, have not been answered by argument, and who, unlike the members of a certain assembly, have no interest distinct from the common body of the people. Aresolution, which not only adopts all the proceedings of that convention, and all their conduct but particularly and distinctly adopts that part of their conduct, in which they declared themselves a Convention of the People, and declared that they meant by that declaration, that they were representatives of the common body of the people. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12111 The last resolution is, “‘ That a copy of the above resolutions be transmitted to citizen William Skirving, secretary to the British Convention, who is now imprisoned, under colour of law, in the Tolbvoth of Edinburgh. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12112 Gentlemen, this led to the proceedings of the 20th of January, 1794, at the Globe tavern, and these proceedings are extremely strong— a recollect that these proceedings appear to we been wholly a concerted business; that they were nothing like the acts of the persons who met there, but that they were proceedings previously determined upon, Mr. Thelwall, seems to have had ‘a principal hand in Preparing the account of the proceedings, which was printed and distributed; and he detivered it to Davidson the printer, to be printed on the 18th of January—Gentlemen, this account of the proceedings, begins thus, “ Ata general mecting of the London Corresponding Society heldatthe Globe tavern, in the Strand, on Monday, the 20th day of January, 1794,citizen John Martin in the chair—The following address to the people of Great Britain, 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12113 ‘and Ireland, was read and agreed to. So that you see, gentlemen, they are detcrmined to prucced with a sort of caution, which had not been observed in the proceedings of the Convention at Edinburgh, in preparing the minds of the people by a previous address for the meeting of an assembly, which should assume the character of a convention of the people. This you will recollect was an idea which clearly had occurred to some persons who were concerned in the conspiracy, particularly to Mr. Yorke; and which he communicated in conversations which have been stated to you in evidence. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12114 This address, speaking of the abuses which are supposed to exist in the British government, and speaking of the laws of the country says—“ We ure every day told, by those persons who are interested in aupperting the corruption list, and an innumerable host of sinecure placemen, that the constitution of England is the perfection of human wisdom ; that our laws (we should rather say, their laws) are the pertection of justice ;—and then they proceed to speak of the administration of the country—They then state a number of proceedings which they think proper to find fault with—The convention bill in feland—the proceedings in Scotland—and they add—“ In Scotland, the wicked hand of power has been impudently exerted, without even the wretched formality of an act of parliament,—having before adverted to the act of parliament which had been passed in Ireland “ magistrates have forcibly intruded into the peaceful and lawful meetings of freemen, and, by force (not only without Taw, but against law) have, under colour of magisterial office interrupted their deliberations, and prevented their association;—A declaration that they conceived the dispersion of that Convention at Edinburgh was an illegal act—Then they add— «The wisdom and good conduct of the British Convention at Edinburgh, has been such as to defy their bitterest enemies to name the law which they have broken; notwithstanding which, their papers have been seized, and made use of as evidence against them; and many virtuous .and meritorious individuals have been, as cruelly as unjustly, tor theit virtuous actions, disgraced and destroyed, by infamous and illegal sentences of transportation ; and these unjust and wicked judgments have been executed with a rancour and malignity never before known in this land. Our respectable and beloved fellow citizens have been cast fettered into dungeons, amongst felons, in the hulks to which they were not sentenced. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12115 Gentlemen, what are those virtwous acts of this British Convention
SOLICITORGENERAL 12117 They then proceed—“ Citizens, we all approve the sentiments, and are daily repeating the words, for which our respectable and valuable brethren are thus unjustly suffering. We, too, associate, in order to obtain a fair, free, and full representation of the ple.—Where? In the House of Commons
SOLICITORGENERAL 12119 ‘ considered that as their inherent right, which they were determined never to forego, but with their lives. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12120 Gentlemen, this is the clearest and the most decisive declaration of the intentions of: these men, when combined with all that is before stated, and may explain any thing which is ambiguous in it, if amy thing is ambiguous. Atreally appears to me, that there is nothing 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12121 (eve ambiguous in this paper, What is it butde claring, that they hed associated—that is, that they had conspired—in order to obtain far free and full representation of the people, ms house of real national representatives, and ia auch a house only; and that they claimed ts as an inherent right, which they were determined never to forego, bat with the hamwd of their lives. When they say, they are de termined zever to forego that nght, but with their lives, it amounts to the same thiag a5 eaying, that they were determined to ascert 2, at the hazard of their lives—Gentemen, what construction can be pat upon ths paper, but that it is the most direct incite ment that can Pesby be conceived, all the members of their society, t0 ase sorce— and indeed to all the persons to whom this letter was addressed—the people of Grest Britain and Ireland? 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12122 They proceed—“Can you beliewe, that those who sent virtuous Inshmen and Scotchmen, fettered with felons, to Botany Bay, de not meditate, and will not attempt, to seue the first moment to send us after them; er, if we had not just cause to apprehend de same inhuman treatment—if, instead of the most imminent danger, we were in perfet safety from it, should we not disdain to es} any liberty or privilege whatever, in wha our honest Irish and Scoteb brethren did mg ally and as fully participate with wa Their cause, then, and our’s, is the same; and it is both our dety and our interest stand or fall together. The Irish parkammest, and the Scotch jndges, actuated by the same English influence, have brought us derectty a the point. There is no farther step beyond that which they have taken. We are at issue —What ts the meaning of these words,Wr 4BE aT Issue? We are come to the point in which we must repel force by fosce— There can be no other meaning given to these words—“ We must now chuvse at enee, either liberty or slavery, for ourselves and ew posterity.—Will you wait til barracks me erected in every village, and till subsidined Hessians and Hanoverians are upon us
SOLICITORGENERAL 12124 They add, “ You may ask, perhaps, dy what pea shall we ron nee sae ne wi rve, men, same Io re-echoed bac, fm different words, ima ve viety of publications, originating all from that Siess ofthe 6th of Aigutt, 1792, and which shows, that the leading men in these proceedings had the same thing in view, at least from that period
SOLICITORGENERAL 12126 Translate this into plain words, conveying a plain meaning—What is it but this—You ak by what means shall we seek redress
SOLICITORGENERAL 12128 Gentlemen, these are declarations clear and plain. My learned friend called upon 4as to show clear and plain declarations. Can any thing be more clear and more plain? dere is no caution used—they had now determined to lay aside all caution—and you will observe, that my learned friends did not attempt to say one single word in explanation of any part of this transaction
SOLICITORGENERAL 12130 here, gentlemen, they have clearly an openly declared their resolution to have such a convention of the people, and to create a ll upon the principles of the Rights of an. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12131 Now, gentlemen, if a man had proclaimed, in this country, the pretender, and there! declared his intention to establish upon the throne of this country, that family which has been driven from it, instead of that which hag since been placed upon the thrune, nu man would have entertained the slightest doubt, that the mere act of proclaiming the pretender, would have been treason; and my learned friends will recollect, that, in the course of the trial of Mr. Layer, the very case is supposed by the counsel for the crown. They say, in answer to an objection with respect to evidence, “ Suppose a man should have proclaimed the pretender, and then have gone away, and the proclairation could not found, what would be the effect of that? Could not you give, in evidence, the contents of that proclamation?’—‘ Yes, says Mr. Hungerford, the counsel for the prisoner, and who was no way a friend to that government, “ the very act of doing that, would be, in itself, an overt act of high treason. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12132 Then, if proclaiming the pretender is an overt act of high treason, is there any difference betwcen proclaiming the pretender, and proclaiming a republican government? And this is a proclamation for a republican government
SOLICITORGENERAL 12134 Then they come to the following resolution: 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12135 “ Resolved, That during the ensuing session of parliament, the general cumnuttee of this society do meet daily, for the purpese of watching the proceedings of the p:rlament, and of ‘the administration of the government of this country. —This, and the following resolution, they borrow from the British Convention, whose proceedings they had approved, droping only that part of the resulution of the British Convention which they thought it not sate to introduce into their minutes ; namely, that part respecting an invasion — “ Resulved, That, upon the first introduction of any bill, or motion, inimical to the liberties of the people; such as landing foreign troops in Great Britain or Ireland, for suspending the Habeas Corpus Act, for proclaiming martial law, or for preventing the people from mecting in Societies for Constitutional Information; or any other innovation of a similar nature. hut, on any of these emergencies —words which leave an openitg fur almost any thing—That, on any of these emergencies, the general committee shall issue summonses to the delegates of each division, and also to the secretaries of the different societies athliated and corresponding with this society, furthwith to call a general convention of the people, to be held at such place, and in such manner, as shall be specified in the summons for the purpose of taking such measures into their consideration. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12136 Gentlemen, you will recollect, that just at this time the society for Constitutional Information (who were always acting in their way in support of the measures first adopted by the London Corresponding Society) thought roper to clect Barrere, St. Andre, and Rodist, honorary members of their society; declaring, that they considered those mer as “ the most enlightened friends of Freedom— “ judicious, I think, they likewise call them. Gentlemen, the mere election of these persons to be members of their society is, in some degree, adopting their principles; but when in the very act of election they declare that they so elect them because of their principles, when men elect a person into a situation because they consider him as one of the most judicious and enlightencd friends of Freedom—when upon a political subject, they declare they consider the principles of that man to be those of a judicious and enlightened man; they really transfer all declared and avowed principles from the person so elected to their own society, and make them in effect the principles of their own socicty. You will recollect, they follow this up afterwards hy the publishing to the world their resolution for insertion of the speeches of Barrere and St. Andre upon the subject of the execution of the king of France in their minutes; and then you will particularly recollect the manner in which Barrere in his spcech describes a National Convention. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12137 Upon the first question, “ whether the person of the king is invivlable, he describes that which seems to me to be very important to recall to your attention, aithough the attorney general remarked upon it very considerably in the observations which he made upon it. Barrere says, that— The people of Paris, by making an holy insurrection against the king on the 10th of August, deprived bim of his character of inviolability; the people of the other departments applauded this insar. rection, and adupted the consequence of it; the people have therefore formally interposed ty destroy this royal inviolability ; the tacit consent of the peuple rendered the person of the king inviolable; the act of insurrection wasa tacit repeal of that consent, and was foundedor the same grounds of law as the consent itself, The king’s person is inviolable ouly with relation to the other branches of the legis ture, but not with relation to the people. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12138 Calling the attention of the public to these speeches, which is equal to publishing then, shows the intent with which these were proceeding; and that when they had as sembled a general convention of the people, supposing that convention to be approved of by the other parts of the country, they would have considered the people as having tormaly interposed their power to destroy the royal inviolability. For the assembling a conven tion of the people, acting as such, and supported by the power of the people, must of Necessity have been an insurrection of the ople against the existing government; and if the people in general, according to the system of Barrere had applauded this tmsurrectioa, and adopted the consequence of it, the people would have formally interposed to destroy the royal inviolability, and all the consequences which are stated in this speech of Barrere must have followed. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12139 The speech proceeds to discuss whether an appeal should ie made to the people, and be says---‘The people are the Suvereign. A convention is a perfect representation of the sovereign; the members of the legislative assembly acted in August upon these pnncples in summoning the Convention ; They declare that they saw but one measure which could save France, namely, to have recourse to the supreme will of the people, and to mvite the people to exercise immediately that unalienable right of Sovereiznty which the constitution had acknowledged, and which it could not subject to any restriction. then be says—‘ The public interest required that tae people should manifest their will by the election of a National Convention, formed of representatives invested by the people with unl mited powers; the people did manifest their will by the election of that Convention; the Convention being assembled is itself that sovereign will which ought to prevail; it would be contrary to every principle to suppose that the Convention is not exclusively the expression of the general yill. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12140 These societies, then, having declared that, under certaincircumstances, there should forte with be called a general convention of the people; and having, at the same time, adverted to the principles so laid down by Barrere, as the principles of a man whom they th: ta judicious and enlightened friend of fi m, they must have considered a convention of the aS people as an assembly of the nature stated in this speech of Barrere, and upon which I have before so much observed. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12141 Afterwards at a meeting of the committee on the 23d of January, it was resolved, that the toasts drank at the anniversary dinner of the society should be printed at the end of the address. These toasts testify their approbation of “ the British Convention at Edinburgh 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12142 —of “ Skirving, charged by the sentence of the Court of Justiciary with the honour of being the cause of calling that convention — of “the London Corresponding Society, and the several other societies’ and then of “ their condemned delegates. Then there is the following toast—“ Success to the arms of freedom against whomsoever directed, and confusion to despots with whomsoever allied. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12143 These words, though they do admit of another interpretation, yet are in themselves general ; and, considering the complexion of the whole of this transaction, they apply most directly to that which was the object of the meeting, 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12144 Ramely, the establishment, by force, of a convention of the people, for the purpose of effecting, as they conceived, their own freedom; a measure to which, it is perfectly clear, under certain circumstances, they meant to have recourse. There is another toast which has a degree of ridicule in it, but you will see clearly what was meant. Mr. Barlow had said in his letter to the French Convention, that it had been completely shown that a king 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12145 On the 27th of March the prisoner wrote 2letter to the Constitutional Society, in which he stated—“I am directed by the London Corresponding Society to transmit the following resolutions to the Society for Constitutional Information, and to request the senti-ments of that society respecting the important. measures which the present juncture of affairs seems to require. The London Corresponding Society conceives that the moment is arrived when a full and explicit declaration is necessary from all the friends of freedom. Therefore this letter of the prisoner declares, that that moment was arrived which is alluded to in the preceding resolutions of the 20th of January ; and then he adds—“ the Society for Constitutional Information is therefore required to determine whether or no they will be ready when called upon to act in conjunction with this and other societies to obtain afair representation of the people; whether they concur with us in seeing the necessity of & speedy convention, for the purpose of obtaining, in a constitutional and legal manner, a redress of those grievances under which we at present labour, and which can only be effectually removed by a full and fair representation of the peuple of Great Britain. The London Corresponding Society cannot but remind their friends, that the present crisis demands all the prudence, unanimity, and vigour that ever may or can be exerted by: men and Britons; nor do they doubt but that manly firmness and consistency will finally, was fred for nothing. One of their toasts is— “allthat is good in every constitution, and may we never be superstitious enough to reverence in any that which is good for nothing. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12146 Now the wor 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12147 Is superstitious enough to reverence in any that which is good for nothing, carry the allusion so directly to that letter of Barlow, and the works of Paine, in which the respect of the people of this country for monarchy has been treated as a superstitious reverence, that it is impossible to doubt what these persons meant when they gave that toast. And here I may observe, that in many of the State Trials you will find that toasts drank at meetings of persons engaged in such transactions faye always been Considered as important evidence of the minds of the persons so met; because, such: toasts are given for the express purpose of animatin the persons assembled to the acts in view and they believe shortly, terminate in the full accomplishment of all their wishes. Gentlemen, here is a tull declaration in this letter, written by the prisoner atthe bar, that he looked forward to the actual accomplishment of all his wishes. What those wishes were has been already fully and sufficiently declared. They were—to establish in this country a representative government, founded upon the broad basis of the rights of man—the annihilation of monarchy—the annihilation of what he calls aristocracy—the annihilation of all ranks and distinctions of men, and giving equal active citizenship, and an equal right to every individual in the government or his country, legislative and executive—in fine, the complete establishment of a whole 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12148 Republican government, without a king, without a House of Peers, and without any of because, they are given for the purpose ofthose circumstances which belong to the contaking advantage of the gaiety at convivialstitution of the country as now established. hours, when their hearts might be open, andHe thinks that the crisis was come which Viable to such impressions as it might bedemanded all the prudence, unanimity, and thought proper to make upon them. vigour that ever may or can be exerted by 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12149 Gentlemen, these societies next proceed tomen or Britons; meaning to flatter the nathe assembling of their convention, which, bytional vanity of his countrymen a little, by their resulutions of the 20th of January theysupposing that Britons had the-habit of exerthad declared should be assembled under cer-ing vigour, prudence, and unanimity beyond tain circumstances; leaving to themselves, what is commonly exerted by men. This rwever, such a latitude, that almost anyletter is accompanied by resolutions, which in thing which could happen might be pretendeda considerable degree, echo back the resoluto amount to those circumstances, and to be ations, of the Society for Constitutional Infor&tound for assembling their convention. mation of the 17th of January, “ Resolved unanimously—That, dear a justice and liberty are to Britons, yet the 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12150 (l280 Gentlemen, with respect to the other pro ceedings, tending more directly to assembie value of them is comparatively small withoutthis convention, it is needless, hope, for me can be no security for t Fight but in equal laws. ‘ hat equal laws can never be expected but by a full and fair representation of the people. To obtain which—and here comesrs o that little system of delusion which they have at every turn thought proper to make use of—“ To obtain which, in the wey pointed out by the constitution, bas been, and is, the sole object of this society Now no way had been pointed out by the constitu- , tion but that of a petition to the legislature. “ For this we are ready to hazard every thing; and never but with our lives will we relinquis! an object which involves the happiness, or eyen the political existence, of ourselves and terity. When men say they never will, t with their lives, relinquish am object— ‘ when they say that the crisis is come, which : they hope will shortly terminate in the full accomplishment of all their wishes, a full ; aceomplishment of their object—what can possibly mean but that they will attempt, pa e ponies eae of their lives, to obtain object, which they cunsequent! they must use force to ohen ? aie They add— that it is the decided opinion of this society, that, to secure ourselves from future illegal and seandalous prosecutions; taprevent a repetition of wicked and unjustSentences; and to recall those wise and! wholesome laws that have been wrested from ug, and of which scarcely a vestige remains, Shere ought to be immediately a convention oftha people, by delegates deputed for that Ose Seam the different scieties of the Frien sedum, asseinbled iu various parts of this bation ; and we pledge ourselves to the public te pursue every legal method to accomplish so irable a purpose. Gentlemen, the previous resolutions of the ath of January show what object it was that they really had in view, namely, the establishTrent (under the words “ fair, free, and full Tepresentation of the people in a house of real National representatives, and the other words of which I have taken notice) of a complete Republican government. They likewise showed the manner imwhich they meant to redress. these grievances which they here state; wher in their prior resolutions of the 20th of. January they said—that they could not exfect redress from any existing authority— that they considered themselves as persons whe, though they had been in a state of ivilized society, were now authorized to consider that association. as at an end, no. redress could be obtained by the law; andtherefore, that they must have: redress from l their own laws, and not from the laws of their lerers, enemies, and oppressors.. Takingings altogethe the pankacand. the etd are clan— 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12151 a dependance on their permanency, and thereto state them to you, because I think the fe continuance of any ! must occur to your mind, any farther ther answer ope obs friend, Mr. Gibbs; namely, that the rescluuse rvation made by my seamed having been taken to assemble a convenma on the 12th of April, it was not directly pe ceeded upon, and nething appeared to hese been done upon it. You wi the committee of co-operation and correspaadence was furmed for the purpose of canyng into execution these resolutions; that it waa recollect, tia: 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12152 necessary part of the scheme, to encasesl the other societies in the kingdom in te 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12153 ‘same measure ; and for that purpose a prin circular letter was sent (I believe by te prisoner at the bar), following up the resus tions of the 20th of January, pamely, that te crisis was asrived upon which they wee & act. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12154 “ Citizens—The critical moment is amd, and Britons must either assert with zeal sd firmness their claims to liberty, or yicld without resistance to the chains that ministersl usurpation is forging for them. Will youee operate with us in the only peaceable measm that new presents itself with any prospect d success? We need not intimate to yuu, that, notwithstanding the unyaralleled audacity of a corrupt and overbearing factivn, wiich at present tramples on the rights and liberties of the people, our meetings cannot in Enslad be interrupted without. the previous adoptna of a convention bill’—under an idea that there is no means of preve:ting their meeting but that“ a measure it is our duty to anticpate, that the ties of union may be tore army drawn, and the sentiments and views of the different societies throughout the natwa be compared while it is yet in our power, so 2519 guide and direct the future operations of ibe 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12155 Tiends of freedom. Rouze, then, to une ext tion more, and let us show our cunscivusnes of this important truth. If we are to be beso down with threats, prosecutions, and illegal sentences, we are unworthy—we are incap of liberty. We must be, however, tious. Hessians and Hanoveriuns are already amosg us; and if we tamely submit, a cloud of thee armed barbarians muy shortly be poured a upon us. These words most clearly shor the purpose for which all that clamour raised upon the Hessian core being for a temporary purpose, in this countsy; they clearly show that the clamour was wed with effect upon the several country societies, for the purpose of inducing them to ake ek measures into which they could not otherwae have been led. “ Let us, then, form anole British. Convention : Another British Com vention ! : ing which we have seen at Edin ing itself a convention of the peo; upon i D at once; they are ta wait the co-operaina 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12156 What is that but that ingarnd bg degrees (for it is. not to be dont tself by: ae the public mind)—but taking upon itself by degrees, and showing its intention to take upon itself whenever it shall be strong enough a0 todo, the whole authority of the government of the country
SOLICITORGENERAL 12158 Gentlemen, this circular letter produced answers. Some of them have been read to you. The Norwich letter, which is dated the 29th of April, says, “ it is with great satisfaction we view the manly conduct of you and your eollesgas especially when surrounded, as you are, by adomineering aristocracy, who, hotwithstanding their great bluster, are but chicken-hearted. It concludes, ‘ we should be glad to know whether the friends of the people consent to a convention, and whether they will take an active part. A letter dated the 11th of May, 1794, was sent from the Sheffield Societies, which states a meeting in the open air at Halifax, in order to consider measures Preparatory to a general convention. This letter says, “ they were advised by us to defer at present the meeting of delegates until farther information, which should come from you (meaning the prisoner) “ on that subject. So that the thing was continually proceeding ; for this is dated the 11th of May, and you will recollect that upon the 12th this unfortunate man was arrested. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12159 There is a letter written by the prisoner on the 1st of May, 1794, which clearly and directly states the ideas he had formed upon what were to be the consequences of the measures they were about to adopt. It is in answerto a letter from Newcastle-upon-Tyne, on the 24th of April, 1794, which says, “ Being charmed with your masterly and bold approbation of the conduct of your delcgates, and noble martyrs for truth, Margarot and Gerrald, and finding your name signed as secretary to the Corresponding Society, we wish to copy your example, and beg, if you think us worth your notice, you will give us your views and intentions as soon as convenient, which I hope will be a means to stimulate and increase our numbers. They had heard nothing of the convention, because this society was just formed. They conclude witha—“ Farewell, hoping the hydra of tyrann and imposition shall soon fall under the guillotine of truth and reason. To this the prisoner, on the ist of May, writes this answer— “It is with pleasure the London Corresponding Society hear that a society on a similar plan, and with the same patriotic objects in view, is likely to be established at Newcastleupon-Tyne. If ever a ctisis arrived that required the exertions of the people, to stop the current of corruption, infamy, and despotism that seems likely to overwhelm them, it is the present. In God's name then let us use the exertions—we are called upon by every thing that is dear to us as men, and as Christians. The cause of truth and liberty must rally be omnipotent, therefore doubt not at the glorious reign of liberty and equality will ere Tong be established, and modern governments, with every appendage of wickedness and corruption, will flee in time from their genial influence, as beasts of prey to their dens of rapine and darkness from the rising sun. Certainly alluding to that which has been in their minds from the moment of that address of the Society for Constitutional Information to the National Convention of France, in which they represent what has passed in America as a faint light, but that a great and brilliant light was to burst forth upon man. That sun of reason which was ta arise and illumine the whole world, was to come from the East—from France—betore the genial influence of which, modern governments, with every appendage of wickedness and corruption, should flee. There is no possibility of doubting that in this letter the prisoner has viciwals adopted the proceedings then going forward. He adds, “ the London Corresponding Society have beheld, with indignation, the rapid advances of despotism in Britain, aud are ready cordially to unite with every other society in the three kingdom: who have for their object a full and effect representation of the people. They therefore have deputed six of their members to meet six members of the Society for Constitutional Information, to form a.Committee of Correspondence and co-operation. ‘This committee Meets regularly twice a week at No. 2, Beaufort Buildings, Strand,’—which you recollect was the place where Thelwall’s lectures were delivered“ where any member delegated by your society will meet with every information required. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12160 You see, therefore, that the prisoner himself states on the istof May, 1794, not that nothing was doing, but on the contrary, that the Committce of Comes ndence and Co-operation, by means of which the whole measure was to be effected, were regularly meeting twice a week in Beaufort Buildings, where any member delegated by this Newcastle Society would meet with every information required. The letter concludes thus—“‘ We inclose you a few of our resolutions, entered into at our general meeting on the 14th of April, which will be sufficiently explanatory of our sentiments and views. We heartily unite with you in wishing that the hydra of tyranny and imposition may soon fallunder the guillotine of truth and reason—repeating the words which had been used by their correspondent. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12161 Gentlemen, intervening transactions had taken place; namely, the proceedings at 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12162 Chalk Farm on the 14th of April, and the proceedings at Sheffield on the 7th of April. You will recollect that the meeting at Chalk Farm was originally intended to have been on the 7th of April, and from this letter it apfears that general meetings at the same time were intended to have been had throughout the whole country. The proceedings at Sheffield, of which we have a very particniar acy count, seems to me to show the whole intent and object of all these men. The person who acted principally there was a Mr. Yorke, whofh you have seen before in the character of delegate trom the Society for Constitutional Information to the convention assembled in Edinburgh, but who never went to that meeting. I believe ill health was the occasion, or perhaps that disapprobation of their measures which he stated in conversation, and of which evidence has heen given. At this meeting at Sheffield Mr. Yorke comments first of all upon a variety of measures, and upon the nature of the government of the country, which were, ax he pppoe, the subjectsin the contemplation of all the persons assembled upon that occasion. These proceedings seem to have been prepared before-hand, and to have been given immediately in the form of a printed paper. He then adverts to that which is adverted'to in the proceedings of the Socicty‘for Constitutional Information, and in those of the Corresponding Society ; the supposed idea of introducing a mercenary army into the country for the purpose of preventing the meeting of the people in convention. He says— It is doing too much honour to innocent subjects to be alarmed ata few pages of writings or ata few fugitive orations, when barracks are erected in a country, and sixty thousand armed mercenaries are ready to execute the mandates of government ; he then states, “ the day is at length arrived when fanaticism and superstition, deprived of their tinsel trappings, and exposed in their native ugliness to the views of mankind, slink scow]ing back to the cave of obscurity. There I hope they will for ever remain. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12163 The use of this language, almost similar to that used in the letter of Hardy which I have before noted to you, shows the general correspondence and communication between those parties, and the manner in which they borrowed, one from the other, the expressions which they made use of. The fanaticism and superstition to which he alludes, are the fanaticism and superstition which include the prejudices which men generally have in favour of the established government of their country. He adds, “ The energy of Englishmen will no ionger endure this strange uproar of injustice. The paper states, that “ the people then came to these resolutions, which resolutions were not heard by, and not knownto, far the greater part of the persons there assembled, and they are stated to have heen adopted with the exception of one or two persons present— “ First, that the people, being the true and only source of government, the freedom of speaking and writing upon any subject cannot be denied to the members of a free government, without offering the it insult to the majesty of the people. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12164 Second, that therefore the condenmatson ofcitizens Muir, Palmer, Skirving, and Gerrald to transportation for exposing the corruptions of the British Government, wx an act better suited to the remains of a despotic than a free government. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12165 “ Third, that the address which has now been read, be presented to the king in behalf of the above persecuted patri dress you: will find at the beginning of the Printed proceedings, and it is one of the 2iGrosses to the king contained im those pe ceedings. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12166 s — next: raoved, that a petition be presented to the House of Commons for a reform in the representation ef the people is a aap but so marked was the disapprotion given by the whole meeting to this measure, that not one single person secended the motion, buta most profound silence, interrupted only by a few murmurs, was observed. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12167 Gentlemen, you will recollect that it is m evidence before you that the motion for a petition to be presented to the House of Com mons was alla contrivance; that it was nos intended that the propriety of presenting any such petition should be seriously bat that it should be brought forward by a persca in concert with this Henry Yorke, merely for the purpose of being rejected. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12168 “Upon which Henry Yorke again arose and addressed the meeting in an aninzated speech of an hour long, and of which it is impossible for us to give our readers a just conception. He took a general view of the British Consttution, and stated its most prominent defects, among which the wantef a perfect national representation was the most glaring. He dwelt a considerable time upon this subject, and then proceeded farther to comment upos it’? He then said, “ It was now high tme that the people should lay aside leaders, ciscard factions, and act for themselves. That the people should lay aside: leaders, discar¢ factions, and act for themselves! In tne first place, when the London Corresponding Society had prepared a petition to the House of Commons, they had applied to Mr. For t present that petition; Mr. Fox told them, “ As the request of my constituents unquestionably I will present this petition; but I tell yor: be fore hand that I totally disapprove of what you propose, universal suffrage annaal per ieneniss ap therefore, I wish you would apply to some other person to present your petition. They must, therefore, have ins pertectly rie at on any petition which they might think proper to present to parliament igen the only grounds on which they stated they would be content (for they mever bars confined themselves within a smaller cosmpes suffrage and angus than requiring universal parliaments) they should be opposed by one of the most able men in this country, and a man who, for a great number of years, has constantly acted in opposition to the king’s ministers. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12169 They then applied to Mr. Francis, who has been examined upon this trial—Mr. Francis says, he told them, explicitly, at the time that they desired him to present their petition, that he likewise disapproved of the prayer of their petition, and that he likewise should Gree it to the utmost of his power. Genlemen, you will recollect, that they cuncealed from Mr. Francis the purpose for which this petition was to be presented. He “was not aware, that they had no serious intention in presenting this petition, and that their object was only to raise discussion and discontent ; that was, in no degree, represented to him, nor were there stated to him a variety of other circumstances respecting the transaction. They likewise knew, that the Society of the Friends of the People would listen to no such measure. The Corresponding Society had artfully enough continued to keep up correspondence with the Society of the Friends of the People, after that society had discarded the society for Constitutional Information, because they saw that the Society for Constitutional Intormation was going to those great lengths, which the Friends of the People Hieatptevest They knew, therefore, that all those persons, who not only were notin the habit of supporting government, but, on the contrary, were in opposition to it; when I say, in support of, and in opposition to government, I mean in support of the administration of the government, and, in opposition to that administration; they knew -that all those persons would oppose that very plan of reform, which those societies meant to introduce. ‘They knew, therefore, that they could not hope to do any thing in pardiament, and that a petition to the House of Commons must necessarily be nugatory, because all parties agreed in thinking, that the plan which they -proposed was inadmissible, and yet they had expressly declared, that they would be content-with nothing less. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12170 Mr. Yorke, therefore, told the people at Sheffield, “1t was now high time that the ste should lay aside leaders, and discard ns, and act for themselves. He strongly enforced these principles, and then entered into a complete detail of the ancient consti‘tution, as established by Alfred, which he proved to be at this-time totally defaced, if Dot lost. He then pursued the gradual decline of popular liberty in England, from the -anarchy which was the consequence of Danish 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12171 Norman invasion, and taking a general -sketch of our history, so far as it was connected withthe subject of popular representation; he made some strong and pointed remarks on the revolution in 1688
SOLICITORGENERAL 12173 Then, gentlemen, he proceeds, in an extremely long speech, to observe upon the effects of that universal emancipation to which he looked; saying, that “ oppressed nature will, at a proper season, depart from passive principles; and should an attempt be made to wrest what remains of liberty from us, I trust all men will concur to vindicate their violated rights ; and he concluded with saying, “ When such a revolution of sentiment shall have dispersed the mists of prejudice ; when, by the incessant thunderings from the press, the meanest cottager: of our country shall be enlightened, and the sux of reason, of which we have heard so much, “ shall shine, in its fullest meridian, over us, then, THE COMMANDING VOICE OF THE WHOLE PEOPLE SHALL RECOMMEND THE FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTYEIGHTGENTLEMEN IN‘SAINT STEPHEN'S CHAPEL, TO CO ABOUT THEIR BUSINESS. Then several resolutions were entered into, one of which was : Convinced of this truth, it is the apinion of this mest that the people ought to demand, asa right, and not petition, as a Savour, for universal representation. —« That, therefore, we will petition the House of Commons no more on this. subject. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12174 It has been attempted to represent this, as meaning, that they would petition the House no more, in the character of separate societies, or individuals; but the resolution is explicit, and clearly shows, that that was not what they meant ;. for, they say, ‘ Convinced of this truth, it is the opinion of this meeting, that the people ought to demand, asa right, and not petition, as a favour, for universal representation: that THEREFORE we will petition the House of Commons no more on this subject. The reason given for petitioning no more, would apply just as much to petitioning, in the form of a number of persons, assembled by delegation, at Edinburgh, or elsewhere, as it would to this meeting at Sheffield
SOLICITORGENERAL 12176 Gentlemen, they speak then of the rejecAion of their petition by the House of Comgnons; and they say, “ Our petition was received with the utmost indignation, by the House of Commons, which was no more than wwe expected ; and, “ although our petition was disdainiully rejected, because not couched in language suthciently polite and respecttul for the tive hundred and fifty-eight gentlemen, whu sit in the House of Commons, yet, believe us, fellow citizens, we are still of opinion, that the matter it contained was not only just and proper, but we think that even the languaye, which gave so much offence to the hon. gentlemen, was much too polite and too muderate for us. For, if the House of Commons were the real representatives of the people, we certainly had a right to dictate and not to petition. You will find, throughout the whole of this transaction, that they had Now assumed, that they had a right to dictate, end not to petition
SOLICITORGENERAL 12178 They conclude : “ But our petition being the country ; and therefore holding principles rfectly inconsistent with the present esty flishment of the British government. Gentlemen, there are many other passages which might be observed upon, but I a afraid I have already infinitely too Jong tres passed upon your patience. There is ow subject upon which I have hitherto seid bu little; I mean the subject of arming. I could wish, also, if I had strength for the pi ealng to say something to you upon the subject of Chalk-farm ; but I am realty unable to doa. With respect to the subject of arming, asit assedat Sheffield, what does it show? That, some means, the minds of the people st Sheffield, T mean of the people who belonged to these societies, were impressed with idea, that some civil commotion was to beer pected, and that it was, therefore, necessary for them to provide themselves with arms for their defence; and I will take it, that thos witnesses who have appeared here, spoke perfectly seriously when they said they meant these arms only for their own defence. Bat the purpose of Yorke, Davison, and Gale, who are the only three persons who appear scouted, we shall trouble them no more with our coarse and unmannerly language; it -will be our duty to proceed, as we have uniformly done hitherto, in enlightening the public mind, and when a complete revolution of sentiment shall take place (as will shortly be the case) in our country, we shall open our mouths in that key we think most agreeable 0 ourselves ; and our voice, together with that of our disfranchised countrymen, will resemble, perhaps, the thunderings from Mount Sinai. Clearly alluding to the idea, that the opinion of the people, supporting a convention, assembled and acting as a convention of the peuple, speaking, therefore, under that character, the public will, as described in Barrere’s specch, would be irresistible; and that its thunderings would be in that key which the Persons who composed it should think most agrecable to themselves, and would resemble the thunderings of Mount Sinai. Then they speak of their principles, and say, “ These essential principles are both easy and comprehensive. On these we build our right to representation, and renvunce the idcu of future petitions. So that they cleatly renounce the idea of future petitions, not simply from themselzcs, but from any other persons, assuming their title to universal representation, as a right, and Not as a thing to be obtaincd by petition : By these maxims we find that every Englishman is free, and that in the clection of a Supreme magistrate, or in the delegation of leBislatiwe powers, he concedes his actions to a certain superintendence, for the express purse of preventing liberty from vaulting over its imits, ‘und introducing a system of universal Niolence, injury, or licentiousness ;—applyin Election to the supreme magistrate, as wall Bs to every other part of the government of have been active persons upon the occasion, was as completely answered, whether nt had armed those men for the purpose of defence, or any other purpose whatever. They had armed them with a weapon, cheaply and easily obtained, and easily used; they very well, likewise, that which appeared upoa the examination, I think, of one of the wit nesses for the defendant, that ten thousand such arms might, at Sheffield, be fabricated in a day; so that it was unnecessary that the actual fabrication of arms should be immediately thought of. Nothing more was wanting than to put the people in a train, for the pupose of obtaining arms when they should be wanted, The ie thingnny al y with res; to what passed in 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12179 As to Tee letter from Davison, itis Drogo clear, although we cannot trace the fact, thst it had been communicated by the prisoner, a some way or other ; otherwise Edwards sev could have known, that the prisoner was tle person to apply to, for a direction where get arms at Sheffield. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12180 Gentlemen, ata much earlier period, the persons concerned in this transaction, looked upon what was going forward, as leading to extreme anarchy—I allude more particularly to the letter of Skirving, of the 5th of July, 1793, to the prisoner at the ba, a which he clearly and explicitly states, whst his ideas upon the subject were. In wnitiag that letter of the 5th of July, 1793, Mr. Skix ving had it in his contemplation that, by pr sibility, in a very short time, the whole cou try might be in anarchy and confusion. Be says—“ If we sought only the extirpaix of one set of interested men from the 1 ment of national affairs, that place mightgiven to another set, without affecting Uvitals adverse to the system of reform, bet might be easily aceomplished; but to cut up deep and wide rooted prejudices, to give effectual energy to the dictates of truth, in favour of public virtue and national prosperity, in opposition to self, and all its interested habits, and to withstand, and overawe the final efforts of the powers of darkness, is the work of the whole, and not of a part; a work to which maokind, till this awful period, were never adequate, because never till now disposed to fraternize ; not merely or only, I trust, from the sense of the common danger to which we are exposed, but from the ennobling principle of universat benevolence. I think the minds of all must, in the nature of thin turned to more effectual means of reform— not one person was convinced of the necessity of it by the most convincing arguments of reason, together, with the most uneqnivocal expressions of universal desire. hat then is to be hoped for from repetition? I am only afraid that the bow in England, against refornt, was so contracted, that in returning it may break. You would willingly learn, you say, from us; I own that we ought to be forward in this. We have at once in great wisdom perfected our plan of organization, and it we were in the same independent state of mind as the people of England, we should be able to take the lead. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12181 He proceeds to observe upon the consequences of that plan of organization, which he says has been established, and the object of which was, to effect the reforms which he had proposed. He adds—“ The associations with you are no more, I fear—excuse my freedom —than an aristocracy for the good of the people. They are indeed moderate, firm, and virtuous; and better cannot be: but we are the people themselves, and we are the first to show that the people can both judge and reSolve, if undirected by faction, with both wisdom and moderation. I have not a higher wish in the present exertions for reform, than to see the people universally and regularly associated, because I am persuaded that the present disastrous engagements will issue in ruin, and the people then must provide for themselves; and it would be unhappy, when we should be ready to act with unanimity, to beoccupied about organization, without which, however, anarchy must ensue. What can this advert to but a contemplation in the mind of Skirving, so early as the 25th of May, 1793, that things were approaching to such a state, in this country, that there would be a dissolution of the whole of the existing govern ment; and, if some other government was Not provided in its place, that anarchy must ensue? “ Let us, therefore, (says he) “ take the hint given us by our opposers. Let us begin in earnest to make up our minds relative to the extent of reform which we ought to seek, to’ be prepared to justify it, and to Controvert objections, Let us model the whole in the public mind. Let us provide avery stake and stay of the tabernacle which we would erect ; so that when the tabernacles of oppression, in the palaces of ambition, are broken down under the madness and folly of their supporters, we may then, without anarchy and all dangerous delay, erect at once our tabernacle of righteousness, and may the Lord himself be in it. e 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12182 Now, gentlemen, here is a man contem plating that which was likely to be the result of the measures in which he was en, vseeing they led to anarchy and confusion, and exhorting other persons to be prepareth for the event, by providing a plan for that new i government which he meant to establish, inbe now stead of the government which he meant to destroy. He then proceeds to describe what was the unfortunate state of the Roman government, after the nations which had been subjected by it, had been left “ like sheep without a shepherd clearly alluding to that state of anarchy wiich at that period prevail. ed in Europe; a state described in history so forcibly, and picturing so completely, in many instances, the present situation of France, that really when one reads that history, one almost imagines one is reading the history of the present state of France. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12183 The letter proceeds—“ We may suppose an event which we deprecate. Nay, should we not be prepared for every possible issue, at the present unprecedented divisions of mankind? we have a right to be apprehensive of the abilities ofour own managers, who are so afraid to depart from precedent, that like men of detail, they may be inadequate to the task of preserving the vessel from shipwreck, now grappling with danger, not only great, but new and uncommon. The letter adds—“ if the present ministry fail, who after them shall be trusted? It requires little penetration to see the anarchy and discord which will follow. It will be such, that nothing short of a general union among the people themselves, will be able to heal. Haste therefore to associate, at least to be ready to associate. If then such a broken state of things should take place, the civil broils that would necessarily ensue would soon subside, before the united irresistible voice of the whole. Do not, I intreat you, hesitate thinking such a work premature as yet; but 2 month, and then it may be too late. The sp pcensian upon this man’s mind, unquestionably, was extremely strong—an impression not at all, indeed, warranted by the event; his idea was, that the danger was then great —he looked to the gencral dissolution of government—he looked to anarchy and discord —he looked to civil broils as necessarily ¢nsuing; and the only hope he had, was in the united irresistible voice of the whole adopting some plan, to be actually formed, and ready to be offered to them upon the instant. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12184 Gentlemen, this letter clearly shows, that that sort of civil discord had been long in the contemplation of these parties. Whether they ever took those means to provide for the contingencies which might happen, which the writer of this letter recommends, it is impossible for us to know. All that I can observe is, that if you look into the report of the Committee of Constitution of the London Corresponding Society, I think you will find a sort of provision, not adapted merely to the purposes of a private society, but easily convertible to the purposes of a nation actin ynder the ideas which these societies had o} the proper manner of governing a country. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12185 Gentlemen, I will make one short remark m what passed at Chalk Farm, principally with a view to call to your attention the very violent resolutions which were intended to have been adopted at that meeting, by one of the parties—I likewise would call to your attention, that the system of arming appears to have been, in some degree, adopted throughout, as to what was said with respect to the knives it certainly was a trifling circumstance, but the fact is not contradicted, and I would particularly remark to you, that a pergon of the name of Pearce, was named specifically in the evidence of Groves (whose evidence is the only evidence that has been in any degree materially affected) as one of the peswns who were present at the transaction. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12186 might have appeared and contradicted -that assertion ; he has not appeared and contradicted that assertion, he therefore must be taken, from his silence upon this occasion, to have assented to the eth of that assertion. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12187 I would likewise observe, that Green, the man who in some respects contradicts Groves, was called on the pee of the crown; and I think that you will believe, that those who had the management of this business on the part of the crown, when they called that man, had no idea of concealing from you an’ circumstance of which they could obtain evidence for your information. He likewise himself, upon his cross-examination, admitted something which might give some sort of colour to the evidence of Groves—but. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12188 Gentlemen, put out of your consideration all the evidence that Groves has given—put out of your consideration these knives, and a thousand other little trifling circumstances— you will find all the parol evidence given, confirmed by the written papers—you will find not one word of that parol evidence contradicted, except so far as the evidence of Green, one of the witnesses on the part of the crown, contradicts the evidence of Groves, another witness on the part of the crown, in this single circumstance—at the same time that hundreds and hundreds of people might have contradicted the test part of tl 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12189 1 evidence which has been given, if it had en thought safe for the prisoner to bring those persons to the bar. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12190  You will likewise recollect the paper of the Ins and Outs, which was certainly an incitement to arm, exactly upon the same principle es that which was proceeded upon at Sheffield, ineiting the people to provide arms for self-defence—the persons who 36 inciaj them, having no reason whatever for incitiag them to arm, for any particular object, at thir moment, but simply for the purpose of pre viding with arms the persons whom they meant afterwards to make use of, and having the power to refrain from telling them the application which they meant to make df them, till the moment when it would be oo venient for them to do so. 
SOLICITORGENERAL 12191 Gentlemen, I have addressed you beyood my strength
SOLICITORGENERAL 12193 at you will give it with jor. —If it should compel you to give a contuy verdict ; bitter though the cup may be, you may not passit from you. You have a solem duty to perform ; you must tax own feel. ings; you must perform it. I have had a dut which T have found not only difficult to but painful to my own fee nee T have et deavoured to discharge it faithfully. Having done so, I will now trouble you no longer. 
