STRUTT 11396 I think Got once. 
STRUTT 11406 I saw the prisoner once, and but once, I think, to my knowledge. 
STRUTT 11408 I think in the beginniog of the month of March, 1793. 
STRUTT 11410 I had given notice in the Hous of Commons that I intended very shortly bring forward a motion, the object of whicd was similar to that which was adopted ia the last session; namely to propose a committe to inquire inito the seditions or plots, and the general proceedings of the societies which were then supposed to be promoting sedition or treason in the country.. 
STRUTT 11412 I do not recollect. 
STRUTT 11414 I sent to him. I will state very shortly what I undestand from the conversation which pased, and which, I have been informed, is material for the prisoner. Having given this notice in the House of Commons, I thought it my duty to make every inquiry I could into the fact of the existence of these seditious societies, and into their conduct, being myself certainly a great disbeliever in the suppposed plots, to the extent to which they were stated or of the conspiracies which were supposed to be be brewing in this society. I conversed with a gentleman upon the subject; he among other modes of inquiry, named to me Mr. Hardy, and he stated him as a person whom he conceived incapable of giving into any such plans, and who, he thought, could give me every information upon the subject. I said I should be glad to see him: Mr. Hardy accordingly came to me. I took the precaution, not certainly arising from any thing that I heard of the character of Mr. Hardy, to have two gentlemen present at the conversation, one of which was Mr. Stuart, who was lately examined; I showed Mr. Hardy a publication which had been delivered at the doors of the House of Commons, and of the House of Lords, reporting the proceedings and the addresses of those sgcieties, and giving a list of the different public houses at which the societies met; he went over that book with me, and complaint that it calumnniated the society he belonged to, and its proceedings. 
STRUTT 11416 I certainly will confine myself to ‘that ; I should say that Mr. Hardy: observed that the information apparently obtained by government was extremely accurate; that the places mentioned as their places of meetings were extremely correct; 
STRUTT 11424 The whole object of the society, and his own ohject to be, obtaining by peaceable means, a parliamenwy teform upon the duke of Richmond’s 
STRUTT 11426 He went through the list of these places, and upon my interrogating him, certainly not Presuming that Te was bound to answer the question, upon asking him the fact, whether these societies, having been dispersed, they continued to meet at these public houses ; he declared they did not; that in consequence of this publication of government these houses considered themselves as marked, and stating that their members were not persons who spent much money at public houses, that without much reluctance the landlords of those houses had refused to let them meet at their houses. I asked him if they still continued to meet, he said distinctly that they did; that he knew they were watched by government, and had no objection to its being known that all the societies continued to meet in private houses, and he had no objection, he said, to give me the list of the houses where they met, for my information, and that I might read it, if I pleased, in the House of Commons. 
STRUTT 11428 I told him that satel ; I took down a great many of the private houses where he said they met; I dare say I did not preserve the paper, but I had it in my hand when J moved the next day in the House of Commons for a committee to inquire into the conduct of these societies. 
STRUTT 11430 He offered me every assistance and information in his power—he offered me a sight of the whole correspondence, copies of all his letters, if 1 chose it, and expressed an eaee wish that my motion might e successful for an inquiry into the conduct of these societies. 
STRUTT 11432 He offered me a sight of the whole of his papers, and every book in his possession. 
STRUTT 11434 Certainly a voluntary offer, appearing to me to arise froma very sincere wish, on his part, that an investigation might be instituted. 
STRUTT 11437 I think in March, 1793, I made the motion, and I am pretty confident this conversation was the very evening before I made the motion. 
STRUTT 11439 I showed him a book, a publication supposed to proceed from the treasury, which had been delivered to the members of both Houses, and which he complained yery much calumpiated the proceedings of these societies. 
STRUTT 11441 He offered to show me the abo of the papers and books of his society. 
STRUTT 11443 He offered in general to give every information as to the proceedings which be could give; he said he had no concealment, that he wished to show me any papers, books, or proceedings of the society; I cannot recollect whether he said a book or books, but I must be understood when I say he offered generally to give me every information ia hi power. 
STRUTT 11445 It is impossible for me to say that he-used-the word Journal, or whether he said Book, or Books; but I am positive in the recollection that he offered to show me the papers of the Corresponding Society. 
STRUTT 11447 I have just distinctly said that I am not positive whether he said Journal or Book, but his offer was to show ,me all the papers and other correspondence, and to .conceal nathing fram me; how, he made that offer ZT cannot expressly recollect, hut the impression on my mnind was that he meant to withhold nothing from me, but ,to give me whatever materials were in his power, ,whether Rooke, taoals or whatever they might be. 
STRUTT 11455 I dq pot think 3 sla. ble passed upog that 4 
STRUTT 11457 Up questionably. 
STRUTT 11461  I do not recollect his persan again, but I bare seen him twice. 
STRUTT 11463 I recollect that 1 have seen hin twig, and Ihelieve that is all. The first timeahis own house in Piccadilly, in consequence ofa detier, or some normaton hick heoommaupicated to. me, thatit wap the intention of the society, of which he was the secretary, a to which he belonged, to return me thei hanks for a speech concerning the refouof Pan jament, w ee oe in the House of Cammons, think I ano prefty accune in bee that was their desire ye pee the 1 S, ir society ; d wept to bim to tell ra I was satisfied Baas thanks, and wished them to decline printing that ba qe first heres seeing“fhe 
STRUTT 11465 In the beginning oe On or before. the neat May, 1733, 
STRUTT 11467 I treated it as I have done upon all other occasions; J treated the idea of universal suffrage with ; the utmost disapprobation, and I told them that if I did present the petition, they ought to know that I should at the same time de-clare, as I did when I presented it declare, 6 thatIhad nothing to do with the prayer of it, not that it was illegal, but that im my idea it Was improper. 
STRUTT 11471 Mr. Margarot was the spokesman rather more than Mr. Hardy; Mr. Hardy was present, and 1 perfectly re
STRUTT 11476 Yes, remarkably so; and I was very glad to have that to state to the House. 
