STUART 9750 Secretary to the committee of the society ; I never was appointed secretary to the society. 
STUART 9752 Yes; I know there is. 
STUART 9754 Yes; I know that. 
STUART 9756 I never heard that he was; I never knew of my own knowledge who were members of either the London Corresponding Society, or the Society tor Constitutional Information, S 
STUART 9758 I never knew it in my fe. 
STUART 9760 Yes. 
STUART 9762 Yes, I do, 
STUART 9764 Yes; I think the first letter received from Sheflield was in the month of May, 1792, 
STUART 9766 I know nothing of that at all. 
STUART 9768 I believe the reasons are assigned in the letter that was sent in answer. 
STUART 9770 Yes; I believe that is in the answer. 
STUART 9772 I cannot exactly say that I did. 
STUART 9774 I cannot say I ever saw it. 
STUART 9776 I have. 
STUART 9778 Yes, I have. 
STUART 9781  The society declined it. 
STUART 9783 I think there was a letter, not exactly to know the principles of the society, but to know the plan they meant to adopt. 
STUART 9785 I believe they declined to inform them. 
STUART 9787 Nothing more. 
STUART 9789 This seems an authentic copy of the proceedings of the society I belong to. 
STUART 9791 I believe not all of them ; some have withdrawn, and some new members have been added to this society, since that list was made. 
STUART 9793 Yes; I do not exactly know farther than from report, who were members of the Constitutional Society, but from the evidence I certainly believe that there were gentlemen who were members of both. 
STUART 9795 I really cannot say what objections ; 
STUART 10552 I have. 
STUART 10554 Yes, they had. 
STUART 10557 I have; here— it is the proceedings of the society, printed under my own inspection. 
STUART 10559 It docs. 
STUART 10573 Yes, that is the same Mr. Breton. 
STUART 10574 Thomas Rogers, esq.; hon. Thomas Erskine, M. P. 
STUART 10582 I a ur declaration was published about the en 
STUART 10586 I never saw him write; 
STUART 10588  Your lordships 
STUART 10596 I have the honour to te, just, and so good a cause; you have our with much esteem, your “very respectful warmest wishes, sincerest thanks, and assuredfriend, (by order of the committee) endeavours of supporting it, to the best of our “ SAMUEL ASHTON, Seeretary. abilities, in a rational and peaceable way. It “ Campo-lane, Shetheld our duty, and it will ever claim our atten- “ Sheffield, May 14, 1792. 
STUART 10604 I have it here 
STUART 10606 Yes. 
STUART 10608 It was; Mr. Grey was im the chair of the committee thi! day; I earried the answer to him, to the House of Commons, after I had copied it ot fair, he signed it, and I put it into the post. 
STUART 10616 Language thus explicit will effectually combat misrepresentations to which, perhaps, ardent indiscretion may have sometimes furnished pretexts. An early declaration of these opinions, which we sincerely believe you to entertain, will conciliate: many to the cause of a reform who are now held in honest neutrality by their fears, The friends of order, aftcr sucha declaration, justified by consistent conduct, will be no lonver driven to seek refuge from anarchy in the bosom of corruption. The interested supporters of the present abuses will thus be disarmed, for it is only by confounding reform with commotion, and corruption with the British constitution, that they are enabled ta prolong and to defend their usurpations. All’ 
STUART 10623 Yes. 
STUART 10626 It was. 
STUART 10631 Yes. 
STUART 10633 Yes. 
STUART 10635 I sent it by the post to Sheffield. 
STUART 10637 Not personally then. 
STUART 10639 Yes; a currier, or tanner, I believe, 
STUART 10641 I suppose in’ the same business, I have no doubt he was. 
STUART 10643 Yes. 
STUART 10646 By the direction of the committee. 
STUART 10648 I believe none of them knew Mr. Ashton at that time. 
STUART 10650 I did not. 
STUART 10652 Yes, 
STUART 10654 I never heard of such a letter before. 
STUART 10656 About a twelvemonth ago Mr. Ashton was in town, and called upon me. 
STUART 10658 I think that was about the beginning of May. 
STUART 10660 It was. 
STUART 10662 I am not sure; I had read it in the newspapers; but I cannot say certainly whether I knew it or not. 
STUART 10664 At the time of sending that answer, I did not think ofany such thing. 
STUART 10666 No; but, I believe, T heard of it afterwards. 
STUART 10669 I suppose about a dozen. 
STUART 10672 Yes. 
STUART 10674 No;I did not. 
STUART 10676 Yes; there were. 
STUART 10678 Five gentlemen left the society at once ; their letter is printed in those proceedings; Mr. Baker, lord John Russell, Mr. Courtenay, Mr. Dudley North, and Mr. Curwen. 
STUART 10681 I can only know from hearsay. 
STUART 10684 Yes. 
STUART 10686 Yes. 
STUART 10688 I do not know that Mr. Batley, senior. 
STUART 10690 Yes. 
STUART 10692 Yes. 
STUART 10694 I do not know that Mr. Sharpe is a member of the Constitutional Society. 
STUART 10697 I believe, before I had any thing to do with it. 
STUART 10700 Yes, he is. 
STUART 10702 Yes. 
STUART 10704 Yes, approving entirely of that answer which has been read. 
STUART 10707 That would not do. 
STUART 10709 Yes. 
STUART 10711 He certainly is. 
STUART 10713 Yes. 
STUART 10715 Yes; I believe they all knew; it was in the public papers. 
STUART 10717 He does. 
STUART 10719 None at all. 
STUART 10721 They knew from the public papers, I believe ; nothing farther. 
STUART 10723 Yes. 
STUART 10725 it is a reply to an answer signed by Mr. Grey; the letter was dated the 24th of May; it will take two days to gu to Sheffield, and two days to bring up a reply. 
STUART 10732 A razor maker, at How long were you a member of the society?—Nearly from first forming of the to the last. 
STUART 10734 I did. 
STUART 10736 The object that I had in view, was a reformation in the Commons House of Parliament. 
STUART 10738 By petitioning the House of Parliament. 
STUART 10740 We adopted the’ plan of the duke of Richmond; that was the idea that I formed of the business. 
STUART 10743 I have not; from the knowledge I have of the society, I believe that they had only one end in view. 
STUART 10745 Yes. 
STUART 10747 Yes. 
STUART 10749 Yes. 
STUART 10751 No. 
STUART 10753 No; I should lave immediately withdrawn from it. 
STUART 10755 No; I would immediately have withdrawn as soon as I had formed an idea that they were meaning 10 obtain it by force. 
STUART 10757 Yes. 
STUART 10759 That they were to associate together, in order to inform the minds of the people, and to draw up such papers, to be presented to government, as they thought would be most conducive to bringing about a reformation in the Commons House of Parliament. 
STUART 10761 No ; he had no other authority, but acting upon the same principle that the society had always done, Do you remember at what time there was any alarm spread in your society upon the subject ?—I recollect, but I cannot justly mention when. 
STUART 10763 I have no knowledge of the hand-bill. 
STUART 10765 I have seen people repeatedly assembled together, and have heard them speak repeattlly of assaulting the society; and, from inflammatory letters that were published in the Sheffield paper, by one George Russell, it very much alarmed the people of the society at Sheffield. 
STUART 10767 No; I am almost a stranger to the pike business; I have heard it mentioned, but know little of it. 
STUART 10769 Certainly. 
STUART 10771 Yes. 
STUART 10773 No; it is a question that was never agitated in the committee, nor in the society. 
STUART 10775 No; I never beard of it, either before, or since. 
STUART 10777 No, we had not; I had not for my own part, and I reasonably hope that the society had not. 
STUART 10779 Yes; I never saw any thing to the contrary. 
STUART 10781 The nly object that I had in view, and the only object I ever understood that the society at large had in view. 
STUART 10783  Yes, frequently stated, and a number of the duke of Richmond's letters to colonel Sharman were published by the society. 
STUART 10785 It was for sole purpose of informing the society at large of the principles upon which they intended to go. 
STUART 10787 Yes, strictly. 
STUART 11222 Yes, I have; he always stated it to be the duke of Richmond’s plan, universal suffrage and annual parliaments. , 
STUART 11224 It was said publicly; and he sold me ‘some copies of the duke of Richmond’s letter. 
STUART 11230 The Court supported the rejection of it.—The learned judge rejected it upon this principle : That the defendant in that case was charged with an act, which act was the pula ofa libel; and that, although the late act of parliament directs, in fact, that the trial upon a libel, like the trial upon any other case, proceeds by the judge’s giving his opinion to the jury in matter of law, still it does not require that there should be any evidence upon the subject showing the intention of the prisoner. 
STUART 11235 To apply that doctrine in the case I have mentioned, which I am persuaded is familiar to all your lordships, in which a very elaborate judgment was delivered by lord Mansfield, where his lordship said, the defendant, Woodfall, was found by the jury guilty of having published the libel ; and though the defendant called no witnesses to rebut the criminal inference; yet, says lord Mansfield, if it be upon the libel, he may arrest the judgment upon the record, for the fact of publication is the crime that is imputed to him; and if, when it comes before the Court, that publication turnsout to be no libel, the defendant can have no judgment pr nounced upon him. 
STUART 11237 The Pr soner is charged with the overt acts, which I need not repeat, because we are so well a quainted with the nature of them; but he is not charged with the commission of thoe acts, as substantive acts, but he is charge with having in his mind the wicked and de testable purpose of aiming at the destruction of the king, to put down and bring the kiss to death, and that in the fulfilment of tut 
STUART 11241 The question he puts to the jury is this : 
STUART 11243 but whether, to give it the substance of the cage, it was done with the intent of forcing a repeal of this law? upon these points, to which you, gentlemen, will call your attention, depends the fate of this trial. 
STUART 11247 “ Not in the least; the very reverse in my opinion. —Now compare this with the question I am going to a a cunning artful man might stand up in a Protestant Association, and hold forth great professions when he mcant the contrary; but no man who reposes confidence in the bosom of a friend, building himself upon the honour and honesty of his friend, when he tells him what his object is, will deceive him. Good God! if I were to ask people, did not Mr. Hardy, in the Correspon
STUART 11249 The examination goes on, “ Did all his speeches, delivered as president, meet with your approbation; and did it appear to you that his views were the same as those oft the whole associated body? —“ Quite so.—“ Did you ever hear lord George Gordan make use of aiW’ exprensige as ifhe meant to fo repeal this bill rce of arms?---“ Not in the least. Were the meetings open? and so on. 
STUART 11251 It certainly was not debated, I think it the stronger for that, because when a cause of that immense magnitude is tried, where the whole capital was threatened with ruin, and when, as it has been said by the eloquent person we have heard of so much in the course of this trial that this town, and the whole country were in the utmost peril, I cannot suppose that those who represented government, were dis‘posed to treat lord George Gordon with more lenity than the rules of law entitled him to; ‘yet neither Mr. Mansfield, nor Mr. Wallace, the attorney and solicitor general, objected to that evidence ; I say nothing of myself, I was then a very young man in the profession, but the present chicf justice of England, who conducted that cause on the part of lord Gcorge Gordon was, and is, as weall know, a man of great learning, he put those questions without the smallest objection falling from Lord Mansfield, or Mr. Justice Buller who now hears me, or any other person. 
STUART 11254 “ I bar him speak with indignation upon the subitl. —From thence the jury might inter ms quantum valere potest—I do not say it 8 conclude any thing ; I do not say that tht sort of evidence is at once to put an endt any cause, no man can be so foolish ab fancy that, but as far as it goes what is tole come of it after that evidence is heard, il & not for me but for your lordship and the fx: to decide ; the jury ultimately, but we shalt! be happy to hear your lordship’s obsersstea uponit; but the question is when it shall k heard, what impression it will make wy both. 
STUART 11256 I have heard a judge say here, if a fact is proved by ten witnesses distinctly, it is not possible to suppose that ten witnesses are perjured, who swear that I have stole a horse ; my character might create compassion with a jury, but could not do more, because there is much more probability that a man who has hitherto maintained a good character should stcal a horse, than that ten men should combine to destroy an innocent man when there is no reason to impute the crime to them; but when it remains matter of doubt, whenever the question is, What you have done ? and the consequent question is the quality of the act, and when your lordships are to fix the quality upon it, aud to consider, not whether it be the act, but whether it be the intention—suppose the jury should find that he had summoned a convention to do that which I know he did not, yet they must farther find that he did it in the language of the record, in the farther fulfilment ot his detestable purpose. 
STUART 11259 Am I not from these authorities to be allowed to produce the same sort of evidence in support of this poor shoe-maker, which the greatest men of the country have ever had an opportunity of doing without the smallest doubt? Mr. Rosewell says, “ Did you ever hear that I should say any thing ill ofthe king or government? Mr. Strong, “ No never. r. Rosewell asks Atkinson, another witness, ‘ That which I call you now for, sir, is to testify what you heard upon the Soth of January from me, about praying for the king and all that are in authority? Atkinson, “ my lord, he kept that day, the 30th of January, as a day of fasting and prayer, andhe preached from that text on the 1st Timothy 2,1. “ Pray for kings and all in authority. That was not the sermon for which he was indicted ; but in order to show that it was not probable he should have preached such a sermon as he was charged with, he shows that at a recent time he had preached diffe-rently; and certainly it is fair evidence; aman is not a republican on Monday, a moMarchy man on Tuesday, and a republican in on Wednesday, his sentiments do not 1 change inamoment. Mr. Atkinson proceeds in his evidence andsays, “ and then he did assert that kingly government was most agreeable to the word of God, and the constitution of the government of England.t My lords it is material that you should know who tried this cause, lord chief justice Jefferies tried this cause, and it is stated that he received the evidence; and Hume, the historian, remarked, such was the effect that had, that the jury of course com victed him, as they would every body else; that the chief justice did not even sum up the evidence, but contented himself with railing against conventicles. The next is Henry Curnish’s case; in 1 James 2nd, 1685, and when were these cases? at the very worst times in this country, whem judges were, what none of your lordships can, in the nature of things, be, men dependent upon the crown. Henry Cornish was indicted for compassing the king’s death; the overt act was conspiring with lord Russell and the duke of Monmouth to levy war; he called several witnesses to testify his loyalty, and though the witnesses were discouraged they were permitted to swear that they thought him loyal, and that he often dran! the King’s health. Lord chief justice Jones was the judge who tried the cause, sir Robert Sawyer was still attorney general, and Mr. Finch solicitor general. 
STUART 11263 But when the uestion is what the intention of the mind of the man was? and when you have seen the duke’s plan,—I do not choose to affront a noble and honourable person, the pleasure of whose acquaintance I have long had,—the duke would have thought, and I should have thought, I had affronted him, if I had asked, did you, when you wrote this letter, mean thereby to depose the king, and to put him to death? He had no such intention, he could have none, his own interest is deeply involved in the safety of the state, he is himself of the same noble blood with the family now upon the throne. Then I wish to know if I may not be allowed, upon the authorities I have cited, to ask the witness this question? 
STUART 11266 The jury may think after I have given the evidenee, thatit proves nothing, or little better than nothing; I hope they will not think so, but we are no" considering whether it shall be heard, nt what it amounts to when heard. 
STUART 11269 A pretty handsome leading question too, but the minds of men are soothed and softened as they oughit to be, when a man, after the whole weight and artillery of the crown’s evidence has come against him, is standing up in the feebleness of innocence to make his defence. 
STUART 11276 “ It was a great surprise to me when I heard that he was taken up, for he used often to drink a health to king George." 
STUART 11299 I apal particularly to the whole bar. 
STUART 11313 I cannot unders' it unlessa749 so. And what was the fact im si: Freind’s case? Why the fact. was, that ita 
STUART 11350 it is from the acts that he has done, that you are to judge of the fact; and you cannot suffer him, by his declarations, to explain that act, by saying that he did not do it with a felonious intent —I see no difference; the intent is coupled with the act in both cases, as in all it is nothing more than this, that from the facts the intent must be inferred—from the facts here the traitorous intent must be inferred. It would not be competent to a man indicted for murder to say that lie did not do the homicide feloniously ; that he did not intend to kill the man—and it is no more evidence here when certain acts have been done, which we insist upon necessarily aitord a certain conclusion of fact, to say that he intended to do any one act with a different intent from that which is Proved by evidence to be the intent with which he acted. It appears to me, therefore, that upon no principle, and upon no authority can the evidence now offered be received, any more than it could be received if it were a declaration—I did not intend to commit a felonious murder, when I did the act. 
STUART 11354 I think I have already anticipateda misapprehension of what Iam now stating, by saying that if the decla ration was meant to apply to a disavowal of the particular charge made against this man, that declaration could not be received; as for instance, if he had said to some friend of his, when I planned this convention I did not mean to use this convention to destroy the king and his government, but I did mean to et by means of this convention, the duke of ichmond’s plan of reform—that would fall within the rule I first laid down; that would be a declaratiog, which being for him, he could not be admitted to make, though the law will allow a contrary declaration to have been given in evidence. Now, if you take it so, I believe there is no difficulty. 
STUART 11366 I have very often conversed wih him, as I mentioned before, about his plan of reform; he always adhertd to the duke f Richmond’s plan, and said that will be the plas that will be adopted in the end; I disagreed with him about that, and that occasioned t more particularly to be marked in my at mory ; we disputed about it, and he slways obstinately adhered toit, and stated that wte the object of the society, and his whole o ject. 
STUART 11368 I was never in pablic company with him ; he aud another pers were with me one night, and I have had bons and frequent conversations with him upoa subject. 
STUART 11371 Yes. 
STUART 11374 Yes, I was. 
STUART 11379  That fs ‘the charge. Now I'think 1: have the authority of one of ‘your lordships since this triul cante 'on, for & papain, which, indeed, does not want stich high authority to-stipport it, that a convention may meet for legal purposes. Much has heen re-; lied wpoh in the course of the arguthent of phrases ‘being ‘used from which you shrink) back at ‘this tite, ds applicable to France ;, the pHrases of Citizen—Convention—Honourable mention, and so on. Now what I offer: in evidence is to show ‘the ‘jury, as matter of fact (yout lordsHip tepulating the trial ac. cording to the rules of law) that there were sitting at the time, and had sat before that time, and immediately before that time, two most respectable bodies of men, one of them consisting of delegates from ali the different counties of Scotland, fot obtaining a reforin in the Commons House of Parliament, and the ther & convertion of delegates ftom boroughs associated for a similar purpose. Here again I beg it may be understood, just asin the case ef the duke of Richmond, that I am not tiaras argue that, because a convehtion was held before that time by persons of any Gescription, for purposes such as expressed in that bouk, and which this gentleman, as a member, was a party to that, although these resolutions should carry with them a similarity to some that have been complained of in this case, that the quality of those that were complained of is at all altered by similarity to those that are not; but that when we are to decide what was the intention of calling this meeting & cotivention, and to rebut the presumption that they necessarily must, or might be supposed to have meant to stand upon the footing ofthe government of France, in calling their meeting a convention, and in having delegates from different societies, they were rsuing the same forms which not only had nm before that time pursued, but in fact were im the course of being pursued at the same time. The gentleman now called having been a member of that ‘convention, the ptoceedings of which assembly I now propose to lay before the Court, and that at that time it was a thing universally notorious in Scotland, that there were associations for those puroses. 
STUART 11386 At Derby. 
STUART 11388 Yes. 
STUART 11390 A reform in the Commons House of Parliament. 
STUART 11392 No. 
STUART 11394 O dear, no—so far from it, that our society has never met since the petition to parliament was rejected. 
