THOMAS_WOOD 2132 Do you know Mr. Frost’s hand-writing 
THOMAS_WOOD 2134 Look at that paper, and tell me whether you believe it to be Mr. Frost’s hand-writing
THOMAS_WOOD 2136 “ Paris, September 20th, 1792. 
THOMAS_WOOD 2137 “ My dear Sir, We arrived safe at this place yesterday to dinner; and, having met with no interruption on ourjourney, by night or by day, since we left Dover, except delay at Abbeville, Amiens, Clermont, and for want of horses, which the emigrants have wore out. Paris is now quiet, though it was illuminated, and the guards under arms from an apprehension of the people visiting the Tem4 le to destroy Louis and his wife: the latter raves it, and will to the last; the former is insensible to his fate. The night, however, peste over in silence; and this evening the onvention will meet, and the National Assembly take their leave. About three hundred of the present assembly are returned to the Convention; the rest retire with execrations. Mr. Paine made his appearance in the National Assembly last night, which excited great curiosity among both men and women, and occasioned no small interruption. The first who embraced him was Cambon, who last night made a most excellent speech on the subject of the jewels, plate, &c. found in the churches, &c. in order to have them melted, as hitherto most infamous use had been made of them, by pawning them to the Jews, &c. to raise money for the emigrants. This motion was become the more necessary, as, a few nights ago, that is, on the morning of Tuesday, 40 men armed, entered the Thuilleries, and carried off 30 millions of livres. The gates of Paris have been shut, and a search made: more than a million has been found. The treachery of Louis is so great, that the indignation of the people cannot be wondered at. He has anticipated the civil list a year and a half, and mortgaged his domains for six years. The bankers, and others who have advanced the money, will be ruined. Byde is gone. I will inform myself, between this and Monday, of every thing that is passing, and by that post send you a particular account of the 10th, the truth of which is not yet known in England, or, if known, concealed or misrepresented to blacken the revolution. Without the affair of the 10th, liberty was over. Iam sorry to learn that the conduct of your friend gen. M. is not well spoken of. He was in the Thuilleries all night of the 9th; and he and captain Sampson left about eight o’clock in the morning ; and there is no doubt but he regulated the troops, and disposed them in order to attack. Hig conduct was winked at, out of respect to the English. He is now with Dumourier’s army, which ig 80,000 strong; and it is expected that an account will arrive this day of an engagement between him and the Prussians, as general Kellerman had, by a forced march over the mountains, joined him when he last wrote; within nine miles of which, the Prussians being informed of his approach, made an attack before the junction, and was repulsed. There are 500,000 troops now upon the frontiers, The language of the king of P is cl from that of threats to soothing; and he has artfully endeavoured to persuade the troops, that, as they are unable to defend themselves, and are betrayed by their generals, they had better lay down their arms. Few Prussian deserters have come over; but a great number of Austrians have entered. have this moment read a letter from general Money, who expects every moment the attack of the Prussians. They have been joined by a t body of Brabanters, who have all along fought with uncommon bravery. The post 1s going out, and compels me to hasten to a conclusion. We dine to-day with Pethion. Paine has entered his name on the roll of parlisment, and went through the forms of office with a great deal of nonchalance. We are well lodged, and, besides our bed-rooms, have an entertaining room for members to be shown into: several have called this morn ing. We are to give ten livres a day. The clerk of parliament has this moment been here—Mr. Rose, a relation of the notorious George Rose, I have nothing more to add, but that Mr. Paine is in good spirits ; aud indeed the flattering reception he has met with all through France, could not failof it. It is more than I describe.Ibelieve he is rather fatigued with the kissing. Pethion still retains his popularity. Robespierre has been attacked in the primary assembly, and told that he was the most dangerous man in France, and that a good citizen ought to blow his brains out. The English, I understand, showed great pusillanimity. Tell Vaughan, his friend Losh was, for three or four days before he left the hotel, very uneasy, and thought he should never see England again. Mr. Watt is here, and very civil. What is become of Dr. Maxwell?’ is the a Al ways your's, .R Addressed, “ John Horne Tooke, esq. 
