THOMAS_HARDY 11741 My lord, I am perfectly satisfied with the defence my counsel have made for me; and I apprehend there is no need of wey saying any more. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11742 Lord ChiefJustice Eyre
THOMAS_HARDY 11744 No, my lord. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11745 REPLY. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11746 Mr. Solicitor General. May it please your Eaclakpe gentlemen of the jury—The Defence of the Prisoner being now closed, it is my duty to address you in reply to what has fallen from the learned counsel, and for the purpose of (in some degree) summing up the evi e that has been given. You have no doubt been impressed with the very able and very powerful speech which you have last h delivered; and Iam; happy in the opportunity of congratwlating, wnyself, and the rofession, upon the axentians Af abilities which think have beem Aqaany which I have ever witnessed. J baprisenasi iam sure, has been most ably deivaded ,and if the defence is unequal to td pyEpntad its. because his case is indofensijip pxbaehesquse full justice has not bernsdapeds tinh i 
THOMAS_HARDY 11747 I must coni bewevnuthakpvith respect to one thing whish bli fronpy jing counsel for the priggner, and wiaglhsowas repeated in the courseof what hey gaid,4aj-you gentlemen, [felt great surprise. Argqr to what he said when he talked to yoq af the policy of a verdict—I have ever been tayght to think that a jury of Englishmen, sworn tp decide upon the hfe of their fellow Englishman, are to decide only according to the truth of the case which is made out in evidence before them, without turning aside to the right, or to the deft, ‘keeping. perpetually the direct course, and attending only to the evidence before them, the law as it affects that evidence, and what is the conclusion which they ought to come to, without entering intoa consideration, either on the one side or the other, of any political circumstances whatever ; and much should we have to lament, if political circumstances, or any circumstances beyond the particular case before the jury, should in any dego weigh with them. The trial by jury is great safety of the state itself, of fy individual member. If we suffer it to perverted one way or the other, we remove from the constitution of the government the great control which the people of this country have reserved in their own hands; that control which prevented the tyranny ofCromwell from reaching to such extent as might have done, which first shook James th: second upon his throne, and which at all tins has preserved, and which at all times will,Itrust, be found sufficient to preserve the rights and privileges of the subject, as well as tk constitution of the state. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11748 In common and ordinary criminal cass, beyond the particular case, and beyond te mischief that may arise from crimes gv unpunished, in whatever way the verdxts given, no great inconvenience can result ; ba in cases which so greatly affect the state a the charge of high treason does, the safety of the state itself may be fatally involved; ba it is your duty to diseard even that considention. You are simply to give your verddt according to that which, in your conscienca, you stall believe to be the truth of the ca, as made out to you in evidence, and wholly discard every other consideration. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11749 Gentlemen, in following my learned friewds, who have appeared as counsel for the prisone, T have considerable difficulty—a dificulty which, perhaps, in some degree the case i Poses upon me, but I think thus far appeats clear, that they have not attempted to invalidate the truth of any one important faet, but as far as I am able to judge, the trush of every important fact stands, in effect, admitted upon the defence which the prisoner's cut have made. They have endeavoured qualify; they have endeavoured to throw some obloquy upon particular witnesses; bet I think you will observe, that, upoa the whok, every attempt of that sort (in some respect, perhaps, justly founded), but every attemp of that sort has failed of shaking the mam great points of the case. On the contrary, my learned friends, with a great degree of judgment, have omitted even to touch upon some of the strong parts of the case. I would also observe that the facts which have beet stated by the witnesses who have given testimony, are facts in general to which greab numbers were also privy, which might, there fore, be contradicted by great numbers, if they had not been truly stated by the witnesses, and, therefore, you have the strongestfur presuming that it was impossible by-the production of any witnesses against them te touch these facts, With respect to one of them, which I observe was noticed by Mr. Gibbs, I mean what passed oD the and of May, where he chose to sup| there might he a considerable degree of diff culty in finding out what questions to ask the witness, or finding out persons who could give evidence to contradict him, I believe shee were at the moment several gentlemen 8 court who were present upon that occas, one of them an officer of the court, whomIhave: seen here constantly during the 02, who sat next Mr. Horne Tooke at that me ing, and who could have contradicted Mr. Groves, if he had said apy thing win 
THOMAS_HARDY 11750 '; With respect to some part of what has been by my learned friends, I really have thought it an attack upon Mr. Burke, the duke of Richmond, his majesty’s ministry, 
THOMAS_HARDY 11751 ; the constitution itself; rather than a defence of the prisoner at the bar. All these conside
THOMAS_HARDY 11752  Tations, it appears to me, ought to be thrown entirely out of the case. You are merely to decide upon the evidence before you, and upon that evidence as it applies to the prisoner. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11753 Conceiving, therefore, that my friends have not been able materially to shake any of the 
THOMAS_HARDY 11754  important facts of the case, I shall very shortly take a view of the law of the case, and consider it with reference to what appears to me to be the striking and leading facts. But it is necessary first to observe, that as the meaning and intention of the acts imputed to the pri
THOMAS_HARDY 11755 " soner are more questioned than the acts themselves, it may be important a little to attend to the evidence as it may appear to impute that meaning and intent to him, in common with a great number of other persons. Itdid not enter into the mind of the attorney genetal when he opened this case to you, to impute to the great mass of people concerned in these transactions any such meaning or intent as he imputes to the prisoner at the bar. He conceived, on the contrary, that the proceedings were, generally speaking, a system of fraud and deception; always professing one thing, and really meaning another ; confining the Eamwicdae of their true meaning and intent to a few persons, who were the directors and the leaders of the whole, who had the whole business in effect under their management, If this were matter of doubt with us before the cause was opened, we can have no doubt of it now. It is impossible to doubt that there was great secrecy in parts of the transaction, that a few transacted the whole, and that the rest blindly submitted to what course they directed. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11756 Gentlemen, the whole cross-examination ofheard the Sheffield witnesses, and the whole of the Original examination of the witnesses for the Prisoner, and their cross-examination, seems to me to show, that a vast majority of the persons who were engaged in the transactions which have been brought before you for discussion, have been persons who implicitly Save up their judgment to their leaders. You will recollect the manner in which Broomhead described it. He said, “ they listened to their great orators, as to their guides and directors ; vee not the vanity to think that they id form a proper plan of proceeding; they, therefore, passed a string of resolutions, as Broomhead distinctly stated, “ in compliment to those who drew them UPbelieving those Persons to be men of knowledge, and having confidence in their judgment. Some of them appear, through a perfect inattention, merely to have done as others did; and Dowling, you will recollect, in speaking of the transactions at Chalk-Farm, said, that when the resolutions were read, and speeches made, he was at such 4 distance he could not hear what was said, but gave his vote in consequence of seeing all the rest vote. Some of dem described themselves as being totally inattentive, You will recollect Archibald Hunter, a man who described himself at last, as having been a hair-dresser and perfumer ; but who had, as he represented, forgotten what trade he had been of before he lived upon his means. He stated that he heard the resolutions at ChalkFarm and the Globe tavern read, but he did not dote; he took no part in them; and he said of himself, that this arose merely from the inattention which pervades his whole conduct. I can easily helieve that many other persons were as inattentive as this man was, and engaged as he did in such societies as this, without adverting to consequences. It is indeed miserable, that there should be such men, but more miserable that there should be persons who take upon them to lead such men, and to decide for them upon acts which are, unquestionably, at least of great importance, not only to those men themselves, but to every other man who lives in this country. For inattentive men, like these, might be led to the most violent measures, without in the least judging for themselves upon the subject. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11757 Gentlemen, almost every one of the wit- — nesses who were proiace’ on the part of the prisoner from the London Corresponding Society (for I think there is only one from the Constitutional Society) but almost every one of the witnesses for the prisoner from the London Corresponding Society has been of this description; and the only witness who was of the Constitutional Society, was Mr. Wills, the dancing-master, who was a member of both societies. He said he was little acquainted with their proceedings; he never looked into their books, though it appeared that the books of the Constitutional ces constantly lay upon their table; he never of a secret committee, or a committee of correspondence, till he read it in the newspapers, though it has been proved that the whole business was transacted by the committee of correspondence, or secret committee, That committee was not, indeed, originally named a secret committee, but it got that name, as a nick name, from all its proceedings being secret; and finally it got that name from its very members. Upon the whole of the evidence of Wills, you must be persuaded that he was nota man whom they would have sought as a member of either of the societies from any other motive, than that he appeared very willing tu part with his money, and probably was in better circumstances than most of them were. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11758 The producing witnesses of this kind is a strong circumstance; because if they had meant that the transactions of the London Sorespons ing Society should be openly examined; if they had thought the transactions of that society could bear the face of open day, would they not have brought the acting men, the managers of the society, those men whostance ; because it shows, that those who tal had been delegates, who had been of thethe management of affairs, at Sheffield, bezaa committees, so far as they were not directlyto find that Widdison did see a little into the implicated in the accusation now made?business, and therefore that very inoportant But not one man is brought forward, who hasletter was not communicated to him
THOMAS_HARDY 11760 Gentlemen, in consequence of this plan of fraud, and of this credulity, you will remember, that motions were made on purpose to be rejected. That has been clearly proved in the transactions at Sheffield. The motion to petition parliament was made, unquestionably, for the simple and only purpose of being rejected, in order to its being the foundation of the subsequent proceedings. Domen mean to act fairly and honestly, who act in that way? And did the body of people, who attended upon that occasion, know, that that was a contrivance? The evidence has distinctl shown to you, that they did not know that it was acontrivance. When these men published to the world, in the printed proceedings of what passed at Sheffield, that a motion had been made for a petition to parliament, and had been rejected, and so on, was it not held out to the world as a fair bond fide proceeding? That the motion had been made, and rejected, there were reasons for rejecting it? Whereas, in truth, and in no such discussion ever took place; it was -determined on before hand ; it was made for the purpose of being rejected; and then, being rejected, other proceedings were directly to follow. I think, also, there can be little room to doubt, though there is not direct proof of it, that the proceedings at Shetlicld were printed before the meeting was held. They were printed, certainly, according to the account which Broomhead gave, as nearly as possible to the time ; so that they must have been prepared Jor printing at least before the meeting was actually held. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11761 The proceedings at the Globe-tavern, you recollect, were printed, to be delivered on the eighteenth; whereas the meeting was not held till the twentieth. So it was determined before-hand, that certain resolutions should be passed ; that certain things should be done; the whole proceedings which actually passed at the Globe-tavern, were all contrived before hand, by a knot of people; and, being so contrived, an account of them, describing them as having passed, was put into the hands of the printer; and but for an accident, but for the prisoner’s happening to come in the way, the account would have been distributed before the proceedings were had; for the printer brought two hundred copies to the Globetavern, and he was told to carry them back again, except a few, which were taken perhaps, to be delivered to a few confidential friends. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11762 Gentlemen, you will recollect, also, that the account of the proceedings, at the meeting at Chalk Farm, appeared very early. It does not clearly appear, that the proceedings were Printed before hand; but they must have been all arranged before the meeting actually took place. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11763 It seems to me, therefore, gentlemen, that a system has been pursued, which absolves a great majority of the persons, although certainly very blameable in many transactions in which they have been engaged, from a great part of the highly criminal intent imputed to the prisoner. They acted carelessly; they acted incautiously ; they gave themselves up to their leaders—but they acted without any eal distinct views of what they were doing ; and they acted (many of them) under delusion, under false impressions. One of the witnesses, from Sheffield, I recollect, who was examined this morning (I have unfortunately mislaid the minutes I took of his evidence) but one of them, I recollect, said, that his object solely was, to have things as they were at the Revolution, in 1688; that glorious event, as he described i
THOMAS_HARDY 11765 Gentlemen, the great majority being thus absolved from the high guilt imputable to the few, the few are involved in a guilt of still deeper die ; not only the guilt which arises from the acts which they have committed, but the guilt which arises from their having induced others to be participators in those acts; who did not know, or who did not attend to what they were about; or who were misled, deceived, and imposed upon, by those who took the lead in these societies. Among these few, the evidence has certainly deeply implicated the prisoner at the bar. He cannot excuse himself as Broomhead, Dowling, Hunter, Wills, and other men of that description, have done. He cannot say he was little acquainted withthe proceedings of the society ; that he toook no part; that he voted resolutions which he never heard. He cannot say that he never heard of the Committee. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11766 of Correspondence, of the Secret Committee. The very name—a Secret Committee—shows that danger was understood to be in their measures ; even the names of the members of this committee were finally unknown to the rest of the society; and by this contrivance, that the existing committee should be dissolved, but should name their successors without making the names of their successors known to the rest of the society. The consepee was, that a body was created, such as believe never was permitted to exist in the pat of any state
THOMAS_HARDY 11768 Corresponding Society was given up to th most despotic dominion that was ever exerci ed upon men; a dominion over their minds beyond all example; for they were led whatever measure their secret committee, consisting of persons whose very names they did not know, might think proper to adopt; and that upon peer of which the rest of the society could have no opportunity of judging. Gentlemen, the very existence of that cret committee was not only in itself danger ous, as it tended to blind their followers, while they were leading them to the brink of every thing terrible before they knew where thy were, but it shows that the dispositions aut intentions of those who formed it, were du erous beyond a possibility of doubt. Fw Bow can it enter into the heart of man to co ceive that their measures were such as ther preted them to be; a fair, an open, and onest attempt to remove what they consdered to be an abuse—how could they cor ceive it was necessary for that purpose to form such ar institution as that which J have staled toyou
THOMAS_HARDY 11770 heard so much; in the constitution formed by the National Assembly of 1791, that assembly did not conceive it possible for a state to exist unless some restraint was imposed upon the extravagance of opinions, when in their circulation they aimed at the destruction of the state. That assembly also conceived thata state could not exist with such a combination of people in the form of clubs, as appears in this case to have been established in this country; and one of the last legacies which they left to their successors, as the attorney general observed, was a decree (unfortunately never executed) tending to prevent the dangerous effect of clubs by association, afbliation, and delegation, which have ever since continued to disturb that country. Gentlemen, you will find that in the execution of this plan, which I cannot avoid calling a plan of art, of deception, and of mischief, whatever higher name may be attributed to it, the prisoner at the bar must necessarily have been concerned. For he was the person to whom in the character of secretary, all the affixed to al 
THOMAS_HARDY 11771 Jast witness call Francis, a soner as “a man of very good apers of the society were to be addressed, and e was the person whose signature has been such papers; and I would call to our recollection, gentlemen, that the very for the prisoner, Mr. entleman of education, and of superior understanding, considered the pri‘will particularly recollect he made use] of that sense ; you expression—you will likewise recollect, that the clergyman whom he attended, described him in the same way; 
THOMAS_HARDY 11772 as “a very sensible 
THOMAS_HARDY 11773 “man. You are not therefore to suppose that he was himself aman deluded. Indeed if you attend to. the circumstances, it is impossible you should imagine that he was—you will find that Mr. Hardy was at the constitution of this secret committee which did what it pleased, communicating to the committee of delegates letters or parts of letters, or keeping back let
THOMAS_HARDY 11774 “ ters or parts of letters, as they thought proper; so that all their vast communications by correspondence with the country societies, was entirely in the hands of this small committce, I think of five persons only—He had also his private correspondence aud communications, 
THOMAS_HARDY 11775 ‘ probably unknown even to the secret committee itself, 
THOMAS_HARDY 11776 In the very outset of the London Corres nding Society, in the formation 
THOMAS_HARDY 11777 " of its constitution, you will recollect, and particularly in the progress of it, a very myste
THOMAS_HARDY 11778 Tious correspondence between Mr. Hardy, Mr. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11779 ‘ Vaughan, and Mr. Horne Tooke—you will recollect the perpetual sorrection in the hand‘ writing of Mr. Horne Tooke, of divers papers hot bein ! ponding produced to you; so that (Mr. Horne Tooke a member of the London Corresciety) Mr. Hardy must have acted in communication with him, and probably, from every thing that appears, in many instances without any communication whatever with the rest of the society. The prisoner’s connexion with Margarot and Skirving, is also mysterious; and it is perfectly plain that he did not communicate to the delegates all that between him and Margarot and Skirving, you will recollect that the first plan of gending delegates to the convention at Edinburgh, which afterwards assumed the title of the British Convention, originated in a correspondence between the prisoner and Skirving, which was expressly communicated only to Margarot. It appears by Hardy's letter to Skirving of the 5th of October 1793, that Skirving had written to Hardy privately, about sending these delegates; that Hardy had communicated it to Margarot; that they wished it to be officially communicated to the suciety ; and the prisoner uses these words, “ without any ways mentioning that you have written to me privately. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11780 Gentlemen, here you see was a contrivance to induce the sending delegates from this country to the convention which was intended to be assembled at Edinburgh; and by whom is the contrivance? I do not mean to’ say, that the persons I am going to name, are the people that were concerned in it; but they are all whose names appear in this particular transaction; Skirving, Hardy, and Margarot ; no other person appears at all privy to the original idea; on the 5th of October 1793, Hardy writes to Skirving—From that letter it appears, that there had been a private correspondence between him and Skirving upon this subject; that this had been communi. cated only to Margarot; and that Mi and Hardy, consulting together, determined that it would be proper, that an official letter should be written upon the subject, which Hardy might be able to show to the delegates. If in that official letter Skirving had stated the fact, that there had been a private correspondence between himself and the [poner upon the subject, the delegates would have said, “ where is that correspondence? we have never heard of it before. Therefore the prisoner tells Skirving, do this “ without any ways mentioning that you have written to me privately. Is it not evident from this letter, that the previous correspondence was concealed from the rest of the society, from the committee of delegates, even from the .committee of Secrecy, as well as the body of the society? that all this was a contrivance between Skirving, Hardy, and Margarot, for the purpose of inducing the society to send delegates to this convention? Skirving then sends up a letter, in a great hurry, saying there was No time to be lost. This the Corresponding Society is to communicate to the Constitutional Society, and delegates are chosen, and are sent to Edinburgh
THOMAS_HARDY 11782 Gentlemen, if you advert to the correspondence which took place after Margarot and) king in the execution of his authority, ad 
THOMAS_HARDY 11783 Gerrald went to Edinburgh, you will see that the correspondence between the prisoner and them became partly private, and partly of an official nature; and dees is one letter, of the 8th of December, 1795, in which Margarot says to Hardy, “ You may consider this as a private letter; but you may read such parts of it as you may think proper, to any member of the society, especially where it may be productive of good. gentlemen, this letter shows that Margarot had a perfect confidence in the prisoner; that he relied upon him in the whole transaction, and that he left it to his discretion to produce to the rest of the society, such parts of this letter as he should think proper to communicate. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11784 Gentlemen, there are several other letters, with which I will not trouble you, in which it appears that the same sort of secrecy was kept up; and on the 17th of April, 1794, there is a letter from Margarot to Hardy, in which he expressly tells him, “ Show this to nobody. ‘all these circumstances seem to make it impossible to consider Mr. Hardy, either as one who could be deceived, or as inattentive, or ignorant. He must be ranked in the number of those persons who led the society, and as one of the most active. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11785 Gentlemen, considering him in this light, and conceiving, therefore, that the evidence presses as strongy against him as against any other man, I shall endeavour to investigate, first of all, the law upon the subject, and then consider how that law applies to the facts; and I shall go pretty much at large into the law, in eoumegrace of what passed from my learned friend who led the defence for the risoner, and who entered pretty much at rge upon the subject; the gentleman who followed him having also in some degree addressed you upon it. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11786 Gentleinen, the indictment is framed upon the statute of the 25th Edward 3rd, upon which you have heard a great deal. The prisoner is charged with high treason in compassing the death of the king; and you have n told that the law makes the mere intent, followed by any act done in pursuance of that intent amount to the crime of high treason. Therefore the indictment states various acts to have been done by the prisoner, in pursuance of the alleged intent. The first of these is a conspiracy to procure a convention to be assembled to subvert the legislature, and depose the king. Evidence has been given of various matters which I am to contend prove this fact, and several other facts charged in the indictment as overt acts; such as composing and publishing various books and papers, containing incitements to send delegates to the convention—consulting about assembling such convention—agrecing upon the appointment of a committee for that purpose
THOMAS_HARDY 11788 With respect to the formality of the ev dence, as no objection has been taken wit, (and no objection, I apprehend, could be takea to it), I shall not enter into that subject; and I conceive that the only subject for your cam sideration now is, how far you are to gre credit to the evidence adduced, and hov far that evidence, if credited, gives suticiest proof of the charge contained in the indict ment. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11789 Gentlemen, with respect to the question of law in the construction of this statute of the 25th Edward Srd, I venture to lay it downt you as clear law, that forming a design to take any measure by which, if pursued, the kings life may be in danger, and taking any step 0 pursuance of that design, brings the man who Is guilty of forming that design and that step, within the provisions of the statute; and that it is perfectly immaterial whether the acts proposed to be done, or the measures taken, were or were not equal to the purpose. It is sufficient that the intent was conceve, and the act done in pursuance of that intent 
THOMAS_HARDY 11790 Gentlemen, before the statute of the 25th Edward 8rd, (as has been repeatedly stated ou) there was considerable uncertainty in law of treason. Many acts were deemed tre son, which were certainly merely contempts of the king’s authority; and in consequence, the legislature was, in the 25th Edward sr, called upon to define treasons. In doing this, the legislature must have considered, if w suppose the persons who made this law t0 have had the sense and discretion which ord narily belongs to men in that situation, they have been generally considered as mel possessed of great wisdom — indeed it is general observation upon the transactions df the reign of Edward the Srd, particulary with respect to law prosaing, that they were clear, plain, and unembarrassed, & dently the work of very superior mec—t must necessarily have oc to them, thst it was proper for them to consider, when making the law of treason, what necessitythere was for providing the law of treason as a distinct code
THOMAS_HARDY 11792 Gentlemen, it is the duty, therefore, of every person who is subject to the sovereign power of a state so constituted, to support, to the utmost of his ability, that power, as the necessary bond of the whole state; and his acting contrary to that duty is treachery to the state itself, and his crime is denominatedtreason. — gentlemen, the true foundation, therefore, of the law of treason, as a distinct code, is the necessity of providing for the safety of the state itself, in the constitution of its sovereign power: as the principal object of the ordinary criminal law is the personal security and particular enjoyments of the subjects of the state as individuals. It has therefore become necessary, in all countries, to make a distinction between those acts which put in hazard the sovercign power of the state, and those which, though they may be contrary to the provisions of the laws, are mercly contempts of the authority of that sovereign power to which the framing and execution of the laws is intrusted, and do not immediately put in hazard the constitution of the sovereign power, and therefore the existence of the state itself; or, if they do in some degree affect the safety of the state, are not considered as so dangerous as to require the severe coercion of the law of treason. As, for instance, libels, and publications of that kind, though they tend to affect the safety of the state, have never been considered as of that dangerous description, when standing alone. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11793 hen, therefore, the legislature, in the 25th of Edward Srd, was called upon to define treason, it was necessary to consider what was the degree of treachery to the state which the satety of the state required should be pmines with the high penalties annexed by aw to the crime of treason
THOMAS_HARDY 11795 In the exccution of the duty which the leislature were called upon to discharge, they declared that the penalties of high treason should attach upon those who were found guilty of compassing the death of the king, and particular persons of his family; of levying war within his realm ; of adhering to tl king’s enemies, in his realm, or elsewhere ; of counterfeiting the king’s great and privy seal, and other acts of less importance
THOMAS_HARDY 11797  ’ 
THOMAS_HARDY 11798 What is the meaning of these words 
THOMAS_HARDY 11800 Gentlemen, it is absurd to suppose, that if there really had existed this defect in the law from the 25th Edward 3rd, till this time, that the defect should not have been sie, But it never yet has been understood that there did exist a defect in the law. It has been always understood that the provision of the law was adequate to its 3 that it did sufficiently protect the state ; that it has in all times, and in all instances, proved sufficient; and, therefore, the legislature has never (with this view) thought of making any farther provision upon the subject. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11801 Gentlemen, when it is considered what is the nature of the government of this country, there cannot be 2 doubt upon the subject. For, in truth, the person of the king in name, is the state itself. All the powers of the state, legislative and executive, are nominally in him. Notreally, because the king can make no law but by the advice, and with the assent of the Lords and Commons in parliament. He can execute no law but by his judges and other ministers of justice, according to a formed and regular establishment. He really does nothing, but he nominally does eve ing. The consequence is, that he is, to all intents and purposes, the sole representative of the state; and in his name every act is done. Therefore, when the security of his person was provided for, and the principle was established that that person was so inteswoven with the state itself, that they could not be separated, it necessarily followed thatthe security of the constitution of the state was provided for, in providing for the protection of his person; the sovereign power of the state never could be attacked, without attack likewise upon the person of the ing. Gentlemen, it is impossible, therefore, as it seems to me, to doubt that any altempt to subvert the constitution of the soverim power in this count to depose the king from that character whid he holds in the constitution of the soverig is, in effect, an atten: 
THOMAS_HARDY 11802 power by law established; and it has bea constantly held since the passing of that se tute uf the 25th Edward 3rd, that any attempt to depose the kia tempt against his life, under whatever pretene necessarily involves an atit may be coloured, and whether the intentxa be wholly to depose, and to put another in bs place, or to destroy monarchy itself: o merely to take from the king his sovereign authority temporarily, for some certain parposes, such an attempt has been always to be treason. Gentlemen, I cannot doubt of this, and ifit should be necessary, I am persuaded my lot, and all the judges upon the bench, will oo firm whatI say. I confess I should have bea astonished to hear this doubted, if in the pre sent age I could be astonished at a but it is the temper of the times to hold cu to the world that every thing which has bea revered for ages, is now no longer to bem vered; that the reason of man is become more powerful than it was in former times; and upon every subject new lights are to break in upon his mind; he is to be a new creature, no longer to be governed by the wisdom o former times, but to proceed entirely upon te theory of his own conceptions.Gentlemen, when my learned friend argued this point, he app to me to feel that be was so struggling with authority, that be di not know how to manage the subject; sx poses to be bound by those authorities, e at the same time prefty broadly im! an inclination to put them all aside. Yoo must recollect, however, that he did this, not simply in contradiction to the decisions courts of justice, but in truth, in contradiction to the decision of parliament itself; to the de cision of parliament in making laws, and the decision of parliament, sitting in its cial capacity, The ground upon which py learned friend has attempted to put his ment is, that the intent is the gist of th crime; and that when a man does an act D fulfilment of an intention, he must first bare conceived the intention. Now, gentlemen, by that is meant that he must have formed 8 distinct and clear purpose to do the particular act, nothing can possibly be more mistakes; not only in the case of treason, but in evey other case whatever. If a man shoots at 4. with anintent to kill him, and kills B. whoo he has no intention whatever of killing, yet is guilty of killing B. with malice aforethoust So if a man lays poison for A. and B. takes!t; anda variety of other instances there sre 2 which it is perfectly clear that a man has beea deemed guilty of a crime, which was the yo sequence of his act, although be had 50 ra tinct preconceived intent at the time, ert act should produce all the : have followedit. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11803 Gentlemen, in commenting upon this statute of the 25th Edward 3rd, my learned friend cited from lord Hale's: Pleas of the Crown several passages. Page 80 was, I think, the first that he cited, where lord Hale says— accruaching royal power was a usual charge of high treason anciently, though a wy uncertain charge, that no man could well tell what it was, nor what defence to make to it. And again in page 82, he says —“ before the statute of the 25th Edward Srd, almost every offence that was, or seemed to be a breach of the faith and allegiance due to the king, was by construction, and consequence, and interpretation, raised into the offence of high treason. For what these passages were quoted by my learned friend 1 am at a loss to guess. They seem to tme clearly to show, and were considered by Lord Hale as clearly showing, what was the tree intent of the statute of the 25th Edward Srd, that is, that such acts as did not tend in abeir consequences, te endanger the life of the ag altbough they might be deemed in fome degree accroachments of royul power, or might seem to be breaches of faith and alJegiance to the king, yet should not be deemed high treason. You will observe these are the two articles which he specifies in the two passages I have mentioned, and which before the 25th Edward Srd were raised into tthe offence of high treason. The object of the statute was, that such offences as were mot found in their consequences to endanger the life of the king, should not be deemed high treason, except (for in this the statute snakes exceptions), except that it makes some acts which im some degree are accroachmeats of royal power, or breaches of faith and allegiance to the king, though they do mot tend an their consequences to endanger the fife of the king, high treasun. What are these acts? ‘One is levying war within the realm. Now, ying war within the realm, in the sense in which these words have been constantly unaerstood, and in which it is clear from the swhole of the statute, that the words ought to De understood, may be a sort of levying war by way of resisting the king’s authority, in «ircumstances which have no view whatever to the destruction of the government of the king, but merely opposing his authority. In the particular instance of adhering to the king's enemies, the act may not have even a Temute tendency to affect the life of the king; and yet it is declared to be high treason. And so the other articles ; counterfeiting the king’s great or privy seal, or his money, &c. it is clear they could bave no possible view te the endangering the person of the king. All these acts aight seem to be in breach of faith and allegiance to the king, or coming under the other head of accroachment of eeyal power. Counterfeiting the king’s seal might be ae & acctoschunent of royal power; that is, takine u t rson who does the act, a certain accroachment of royal power ; but could not by any means whatever affect thepees of the king, and the means used could not in any degree put the king’s life in hazard. The other two, levying war, and adhering to the king’s enemies, might or might not put the king’s life in) 0 cording to circumstances; and what has been the consequence? If war is levied, or a man adheres to the king’s enemies, under such circumstances as cannot possibly affect the lite of the king, the person guilty can only be indicted upon those clauses of the statute which make levying war, or adhering to the king’s enemies, treason; but if be levy war under such circumstances as may affect the life of the king, he may be indicted upon the first of the statute for compassing the death of the king, and the levying war may be given in evidence as an overt act of that compassing. If the object of that war is such, that it may endanger the life of the king, a conspiracy to levy it is unquestionably cen treason, although the act speaks simply of levying war. And, therefore, a distinction has prevailed im the construction of the law, and the actual levying of war is Decessary to constitute the crime of high treason under circumstances that can have No tendency to touch the life of the king; but if the object is, to destroy the sovereign power, or to depose the king from the exercise of that sovereign power, or restrain him in apy manner in the exercise of it, a mere conspiracy to levy war for such purposes, is high treason within the first branch of the statute. Another passage was cited by the learned counsel from Hale; it is in page 110, in which he states and which seems to me to be directly to the point for which I have stated it, that “a conspiracy to depose the king, and manifesting this by some overt act, is an overt-act to prove the compassing the death of the king, within this act of 25th Edward 3rd, and in page 111, he says, “ compassing to depose the king is an evidence, or overt-act within the meaning of the 25th Edward 3rd. He refers to lord Coke’s Institutes, where lord Coke says—“ As if divers do conspire the death of the king, and the manner how, and thereupon provide weapons, powder, poison, array, harness, send lettcrs, e&c. or the like, for execution of the conspiracy ; also preparation by some overt-act to depose the king, or take the king by force and strong hand, and to imprison him uutil be hath yielded to certain demands ; this is a sufficient overt-act to prove the cormpasning and imagination of the death of the king. For this, upon the matter, is to make the king a subject, and to despoil him of his kingly office of royal government ; and so it was resolved by all the judges in England in 1 James 1st, in lord Cobham’s case. And so it had been resolved by ue judges in 43 Elizabeth, in the case of the earls of Essex and Southampton. And he adds that it had so fallen out in several other cases to which he refers; particularly the cases of Edward 2nd, Richard 2nd, Henry 6th, and Edward 5th, and other unfortunate kings who had reigned in this country, and who lost their lives by such conspiracies, The same doctrine, with the sme comment upon it, is also stated by lord Hale, with reference to the same cases; and sir William Blackstone, in his Commentary, considers these points as settled law. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11804 Perhaps nothing tends more clearly to illustrate a point of law, especially to persons who are not in the habits of considering points of law, than the very terms of a case which has actually happened; and in that view I will state to you the proceedings upon the trial of sir Christopher Blunt, and other per sons who were indicted with him, in 43 Elizabeth, for being concerned in that transaction of my lord Essex, which I think was -mentioned by Mr. Gibbs. Upon the arraignment of sir Christopher Blunt and sir John Davis, who were indicted for high treason, in compassing the death of the queen, they confessed that their design was, to come to the queen with so strong a force that they might Not be resisted, and to require of her divers conditions and alterations of government. This they confessed. Nevertheless they intended no personal harm to the queen herself; and that was the reason why they could not confess the whole indictment, because the indictment charged that they intended and compassed the death and destruction of the queen. Lord chief justice Popham told them—“ whenever the subject rebelleth, or riseth in a forcible manner to over-rule the royal will and power of the king, the wisdom and foresight of the laws of this land maketh this construction of his actions, that he intendeth to deprive the king both of crown and life; for the Jaw judgeth not of the fact by the intent, but of the intent by the fact. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11805 ‘0 which the queen’s counsel added ; “ this construction is no mystery or quiddity of law, but an infallible conclusion warranted by reason and experience; for the crown is not a garland, or mere outward ornament, but consists of pre-eminence and power; and, therefore, when the subject will take -upon him to give law to the king, and to “make the sovereign and commanding power become subject and commanded, such subject layeth hold on the crown, and taketh the sword out of the king’s hand. The crown is so fastened on the king’s head, that it cannot be pulled off, but head and lite will follow, as all examples, both at home and abroad, do manifest. Therefore when their words testify one thing, and their deeds another, they are like the declaration of the conspirators with Cataline, protesting their only object was their own security, that they sought nothing but just laws, and that liberty which 
THOMAS_HARDY 11806 no man would lose but with life. But admitting that the protestation of the prisoners was so far true, that they had not at that time in their minds a formed and distinct cogitation to have destroyed the queen’s person, yet there is nothing more mutable than the mind of man. When they were once alott, and had the queen in their hands, who could promise of what mind they would. then be; especially as lord Essex, upon his arraignment, defended his first action of imprisoning the privy counsellors, by pretence that he was forced to it by his unruly company. So that if themselves (that is sir Christopber Blunt and the rest) “ would not have had, or would Not seem to have had that extreme and de vilish wickedness of mind as to lay violent hands upon the queen’s sacred person, yet what must be dene to satisfy the multitude, and secure their party, must then be the question. That is, when they once had taken the measures which they meant to take, awas not in their power to say whether they would, or would not secure the queen’s lite. What must be done to satisfy their party must be then the question. Here, gentlemen, permit me to draw your attention to. something which fell from Broomhead, one of the witnesses, who when he was asked whethes there was any idea of violence or force, he disclaimed every idea of it ix Ais own mind; but be added, “ what persons might have done, if any convention had assembled, I cannot tell. A very sensible, very just, and very proper exposition of the law upon the subject. Sir Christopher Blunt, and those indicted with him, when the law had beea thus stated to them felt the force of it. They said they had entered into a deeper consideration of the matter; they were sorry they had given the Court so much trouble, but the facts of the case were perfectly clear against them, and they confessed the whole of the indictment t They were afterwards executed; and sir Christopher Blunt in his speech at his execution, said that which shows the propriety of drawing this conchge as an spfallible conclae, warranted reason and experience, in the s sid clearest ciao In his peers ai bl execution, he said, “ although it be true that, as we all protested in our examinations arraignments, we never resolved of deing burt to her majesty’s person (for in none of our consultations was there set down any such urpose) yet I kuow and must confess, if we failed. of our ends, we should, rather than have been disappointed, even have drawn blood from herself. t 
THOMAS_HARDY 11807 Now there, gentlemen, is the confession of a dying man, who felt and acknowleged, in his last moments, that although he had never formed any distinct purpose of doing any injury whatever to the Queen in the transaction which he has engaged in, yet he saw the conclusion to which it inevitably led; namely, as they could not have submitted to have been disappointed in their purpose, rather than be so disappointed, they would havedrawn blood even from their sovereign. It strikes me that nothing can more cleaily demonstrate what is the true construction of this law than the bare narration of the case I have now cited. It shows that those who have construed the law in the manner in which I have Stated it, have construed it by drawing infallible conclusions warranted by reason and experience. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11808 Gentlemen, the cases which are mentioned by lord Coke by name only, the case of Henry 4th deposing Richard ad, and Edward 4th deposing Henry 6th show that the humbleness ofthe demand at the Epaniag of ascheme of this sort may often lead to the most dreadful consequences, When the wife of Edward 2d conspired against her husband, and came over tothis country with her infant son, her pretence was, that it was only against evil counsellors. In consequence of that declaration, numbers ined her, who were discontented with the bars government, unquestionably with very considerable reason. hat was the result? The moment she had raised this power, she got the great seal into her hands, she issued writs for summoning a parliament in the king’s name, without his authority, and in his absence; that parliament when it met, acting without the king’s authority, was in effect in the nature of a convention; and they resolved to depose the king, and place his son in his stead. In consequence of this resolution, they compelled the king to make a resignation of his crown, which was in no degree voluntary; and they placed his son upon the throne. They had no intention to touch the king’s life; but those who were more deeply involved in the conspiracy, the leaders om it, knew that this life was utterly inconsistent with their safety; andin a very few months, they contrived that he should be put to a most cruel death. hat was the case of Richard 2nd; was it not the same thing; and when we talk of the means by which a conspiracy is to be effected, we know that Henry 4th, when he first landed at Ravenspurg, had but twenty-six men. He came, relying upon the popular discontents within the kingdom, and was upon the point of guing back. again ; but being joined by a large body of pools the king was deposed, and put to death. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11809 Therefore you are not to imagine that a distinct cogitation, or intention to destroy the king, is necessary to constitute the crime of treason. If the act proposed to be done is that which in its consequences leads, accord- ing to ordinary experience, to the death of the king, or at least to endanger his life, the act is in substance high- treason. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11810 Of the persons who formed the convention in France, for the purpose of establishing a government, such as itnow is, probably when they deposed the king a great number had no idea of touching his life. We know it was a aestion extremely agitated among them, and here are strong reasons to believe that the majority of them, if they had been free agents, would never have consented tothatact. But the question, after they had deposed the king, was not what they would do, but (as was observed in the case of sir Christopher Blunt) what must be done, to satisfy the multitude, and secure themselves. The moment they entered into those ,measures, they were no longer free agents, the could no longer control their own acts, and the consequence was the death of the king. ‘ 
THOMAS_HARDY 11811 Gentlemen, this dessins is also laid down with equal clearness in a book which has been cited by my learned friend, and which appears to me to demonstrate the impossibility of putting any other construction upon the statute. The manner in which the author states it, is thus—“ The care which the law hath taken for the personal safety of the king is not confined to actions or attempts of a more flagitious kind ; such as attempts either to assassinate or to poison, or other attempts, directly and immedjately aiming at his life. It is extended to ¢very thing, wilfully and deliberately done or attempted, whereby his life may be endangered. And, therefore, the entering into measures for deposing or imprisoning him, or to get his person into the power of the conspirators, these offences are overt acts of treason, within this branch of the statute. For experience hath shown, that, between the prisons and the graves of kings, the distance is very small. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11812 Gentlemen, this is the language of a man, who has, in general, been considered as extremely correct upon this subject, sir Michael Foster, who was well known to many persons now living. He was considered as a man as little disposed to stretch the law, upon any subject, as any man that ever sat upon the bench ; but he saw and felt, that the real meaning of this statute was, to provide for the safety ot the constitution of the state, and for the safety of the person of the king, because he was the head of that constitution; and be-. cause, in providing for the safety of the king, the law necessarily provided also for the safety of that constitution ; the crown being so fixed on the king's head, that it could not be pulled off, but head and life would follow. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11813 I have, therefore, been much at a loss to collect upon what ground my learned friend could assert, that nothing could be a compassing the death of the king, under the statute of Edward Srd, but what would amount toa compassing the death of any other man, under the common law. He attributed this assertion to sir Michael Foster; but, with submission to him, sir Michael Fosterasserts no such thingin the passage to which my friend alluded. He is speaking only of the form of the indictment ; and itis perfectly clear, that the case of the king, and the case cf an individual, are in no degree parallel. For when the mere imagining the death of a man, accompanied with an overt act, was deemed, in law, asa homicide, it never entered into the idea of any. man that, to remove a man from his office, or imprison him, were overt acts of compassing his every authority, are overt acts of compassing the death of the king, within the meaning of the statute. The reason of this difference is clear. In the case of the king, deposing him, imprisonment, or any coercion of that kind tends to his death, with relation to his political character, because he is king, and for no other reason. You cannot use the term deposition to a private person, nor can imprisonment merely have any tendency in itself whatever to his death. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11814 My learned friend stated another passage, from lord Hale, page 95, with respect to the statute of Richard the and. At the time he read that passage, I apprehend he had the book in his hand. If not, he had certainly omitted to take from the book the passage which immediately follows. For, if he had stated both, he could not have mentioned the first passage, so as to raise any doubt in your minds. For lord Hale expressly states, that the statute of Richard 2nd, was merely for the purpose of making additional forfeiture of lands, and a new mode of trial; and adding some other circumstances in the four cases of treason, mentioned in the statute, all of which he states as being actually treason, within the statute a Nanerd ant and one of them is leposing the king. it perfectly appears, that oat Hale naire the mutte Gr the 
THOMAS_HARDY 11815 11 Richard 2nd, as in no degree affecting the original law upon the subject, and as intended to introduce only additional severe provisions, to establish a new unheard-of mode of trial, and to add some other circumstances; all of which it was thought proper, by a subsequent etatute of the 4 enry 4th entirely to sweep away. Gentlemen, I mentioned to you, that the -‘Tegislature had, both in its legislative and in its judicial capacity, given precisely the same determination upon the subject. The statute of the 7 William Srd, limiting the time for indictments for treason, excepts, by particular words, persons designing, endeavouring, or attempting an assassi the king, by poison, or otherwise; but does th. But those acts, according to ; 
THOMAS_HARDY 11816 ination on the body of not generally except treason in compassing the death of the king; so that the framers of that statute must necessarily have conceived, that there existed cases which were (withn the meaning of the5 Edward 3rd) compassing the death of the king, and did not come within the meaning of assassination, or any such attack immediately upon the person of the king. And in prosecutions by impeach ment, in lord Lovat’s case, and lord Wintoun’s caset where the charge has been of treason, in compassing the death of the king, the same decisions have been made. In lord Wintoun’s case, sir Joseph Jekyll (who has generally been understood to have been as constitutional a lawyer, and as a whig, as any that ever existed) states the law thus: “a conspiracy to levy war, with intent depose the king, is treason; and such a conspiracy, to levy such a war, has been held to be an overt act of compassing and imagining the death of the king. He then speaks another overt act alleged, which was lord rintaiia's forcing with others, in proclaiming the pretender: “ which, says he, “is endesvouring to set up another prince, in the room of his majesty, and I believe it will not be doubted, but that is likewise an overt act the same species of treason; and if there wanted another overt act, the levying war against the king, with intent to depose him (which is likewise mentioned ip the articlesas a distinct species of treason) may serve for an overt act of the other species of Fon tbouge and imagining the king’s death. For, it is reckoned in the statute as a distinct treason, yet it doth not thereby cease to be of the nature of an overt act of compassing and imagining the king’s death, which it wassatecedent to its being declared a sshinet pets: and this point is likewise supported by authorities, and many attainders have been upon it.’t 
THOMAS_HARDY 11817 This was declared, by sir Joseph Jekyll, oa behalf of all the commons of England, on the impeachment of lord Wintoun, before House of Lords ; and lord Wintoun was guilty of treason upon that impeachment; and judgment being propounesd against him, the ing as the head of the commonwealth, issued his warrant upon such judgment, for the execution of lord Wintoun. In that deci sion, you have, therefore, the three branches of the legislature, in their respective capacities, giving precisely the same construction of the act, which is now contended for.Gentlemen, the assertion, that, if persons had conspired to seize (for instance) king pileets penton, setariee tat ae b one. Holland, express ing, ey int ed no hela fie yernonn they would not jn ea nisi avail einenDae i sir Joseph Je! openingp. 831. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11818 have been guilty of treason, seems to me very extraordinary. In the assassination plot it appeared, upon the evidence, that the intention to kill the king was only in case the eonspirators could not secure bis person. Their design was not to kill him, but to endeavour to secure his person, and send him out of the country ; and it was only in case they should not be able to secure his person, that they meant to assassinate him. In Layer’s case it was expressly proved, that the design to seize the King’s person, was not for the purpose of killing him, but in order to protect him from insult. The intention of the party was, to make the pretender king, and to seize the person of George 1st, for the purpose of sending him back to Hanover. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11819 In lord Cobham’s case, in the reign of James 1st, the conspiracy was, to seize the king’s person indeed; but not with any view of deposing him (except by depriving him of power fora time) nor for the purpose of injuring his person, in any degree whatever, but for the purpose only of compelling him to assent to the general toleration of the Roman Catholic religion in this country, and to certain acts, intended to be proposed for that purpose. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11820 Gentlemen, under these circumstances I shall take the law to be perfectly clear, that, if a conspiracy is iret to despoil the king of his kingly office, and the exercise of his authority, in such manner as the spirit of the constitution requires, it is a eonspit to depose the king, and therefore it is high treason in compassing the death of the king. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11821 Gentlemen, it has been next insisted, that the nature of the evidence required to prove high treason is different from that which is required in any other case, by force of the word ‘ provably,’ used in the statute of Edward Srd, and that, therefore, the evidence must be direct and plain. I conceive, in this respect, the evidence required is exactly the same 4s in other criminal cases, with the addition only of this circumstance, that there must be two witnesses, at the least; that is, either two witnesses to one overt act, or one witness to one overt act, and another witness to another overt act, of the same species of treason. With respect to any other distinction, in point of evidence, I have found no authority whatever. Ifthe minds of the j are not really satisfied ; if the evidence will Not produce reasonable conviction in their minds, in no criminal case ought a verdict of ilty to be pronounced. But if the minds of the jury are really satisfied; if the evidence would produce reasonable conviction in the case of a murder, of a robbery, or of any other crime, the verdict ought to be precisely the same, in the case of treason, as in any other case, seq. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11822 Another objection which has been raised is, that the evidence has been carried to so great a length. ‘It is perfectly immaterial, whether the evidence is long or short, with respect to the effect it should have when it is complete; whether you come to a conclusion by the proof of many circuynstances, or by the proof of only one; for, if the conclusion and result of the whole is a conviction, in your own minds, of the guilt or innocence of the person accused, the consequence must necessarily be the sang. ‘ 
THOMAS_HARDY 11823 In cases of treason the evidence has often been very extensive, but certainly in no ease so extensive as it has been in this. In lord Strafford’s case, however, which was a ease of impeachment, the evidence was very extensive, and took up a considerable length of time; and lord Coke, in that book which Mr. Erskine cited with so much respect, observes, that the compassing, intent, or imagination of the king’s death, in a case of this species of treason, though secret, is to be tried by the 
THOMAS_HARDY 11824 Ts; meaning the jury; and to be discovered yy circumstances, precedent, concomitant, and subsequent. By such circumstances you are to discover the intent; and then you are to apply that intent to the particular acts which are all as overt acts of treason, if they do not in their very nature demonstrate the intent itself. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11825 Considering the law to be clear, I will now state the nature of the conspiracy charged It is not a simple conspiracy to destroy the life of the king upon the throne, and aiming only at him; cat it is a conspiracy (as it has been attempted to be proved), in effect, to destroy monarchy altogether; in the language of one of the letters which has been read to you, to rip up monarchy by the roots, and plant democracy in its stead. And I conceive that this is to be drawn by fair conclusion from the facts demonstrating a treasonable conspiracy. An intent to cearoy the monarchy, and an act in pursuance of that inten demonstrate the intent to compass the deat of the king, as plainly as an intent to rob fs demonstrated by a man’s coming up with a pistol to your carriage, and showing that he as the power, or that he conceives he has it, to take from you your money. In such cases, without even demanding your money, if the thing were intended to be done, and means were taken for the purpose, the nature of the attack is utterly unimportant to the question of guilty or not guilty—it is unimportant borrowing, as I may do for this purpose, the nguage of one of the Scots delegates, Mr. Gerrald) whether the life of the king is to be endangered by a robber on the heath, or by associated clubs; and —I think that the latter is far more dangerous. History tells us that thieves have respected the persons of sovee reigns, that they have felt for fallen greatness, which popular conventions never have done. ee EEE 
THOMAS_HARDY 11826 Gentlemen, I was repeatedly called upon by my learned friend opposite to me, in his address to you, to state the point of time when the prisoner first conceived the criminal intention imputed to him—my answer is, that it is perfectly immaterial when it was first conceived. The question is, did he ever conceive it; and if he did, and acted in pursuance of an intent so conceived, he is guilty of high treason, although the intent is not necessarily a distinct intent to destroy the king, but an intent to do any act which might endanger his life, by any probable consequences. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11827 Now, gentlemen, has the evidence produced to you, shown any fact from which it may be 
THOMAS_HARDY 11828  fairly concluded, that there has been a conspiracy to take measures in consequence of which the king’s life might be put in hazard ; and has the prisoner done any act or acts, in furtherance of such design? I think when the evidence is attended to, that there can be no doubt upon the subject. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11829 The atlorney geteral in his opening, stated a case, in which he attributed to several’ persons, and particularly to the leaders of these two societies (of both of which the defendant 
THOMAS_HARDY 11830 ‘was a member, and to one of which he was secretary) one general object, which they considered as a common cause with other secieties, and with all the friends of liberty, in all countries : the establishment of a representative government, founded on the principles of the Rights of Man—and he likewise attributed to them, a general pursuit of means, for the accomplishment of that object—first by ccllestening the peuple, and secondly by assembling a convention (or meeting, or whatever name you choose to give it, for there is no magic in the word convention) which should assume the character of a convention of the people. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11831 That is the material point—a convention which should assume the character ofa convention of the people, fora convention of the people on the iprueiples ofthe Rightsof Man, must necessarily be sovereign. What are the people? 
THOMAS_HARDY 11832 ‘Fhe natural power is in the hands of the multitude; the forceremains withthem. Iftherefore those whohave the natural force are to be called intoaction by the assembling ofa meeting which is to assume the authority of a convention of the people, the whole people are called into action, and government is necessarily dissolved. There is an end of all government; every constitution must fall before such a power; because it is the people themselves, taking back into their own hands, that power which they had before delegated—I do not pretend to state principles contrary in that respect to what these societies have stated— that power which the people in all countries must be considered as having deleted. But the moment persons are assemled who take upon themselves the character of a convention of the people, upon every principle bat must be, if they are what they assume to be, sovereign: and if they are not what they assume to bg, still if they assume to be a convention of the people, they assume to be sovereign. Gentlemen, if this is clear, the end these persons wished to obtain ws necessarily the deposition of the king, ani something to be done in consequence of it It does not absolutely follow of necessity, that the monarchy should be destroyed, and thata representative government should be eublished ; for it is possible that the conventica of the people so assembled might deliberate with wisdom upon the subject, might be of opinion that the monarchy was still the bet form of government, limited in some way other, and might therefore form a consttr tion which in its nature should be monarch cal. But whether ed should do so or not, still the deposition of the king would be in te interim as complete, as if they had actualy destroyed him. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11833 Gentlemen, the principles adopted by these clubs, give very little room for hope that ifs convention of the people should have bea assembled, acting upon those Principes, they would have established a monarchical & vernment. For, gentlemen, those princip! (which they have repeatedly declared, in the evidence that has been laid before you, at principles never to be departed from) are ist “the Le of equal active citizenship, or te right of every individual to an equal share a the government of that society of which hes amember. And here, gentlemen, I beg leave to observe a very clear : distinction between their plan and what is called the duke of Richmond’s plan— duke of Richmond's plan never asserted ay such right of every individual to an equl share in the government of the society which he is a member. All that his plo went to, was simply this—an equal share m the constitution of that body of represeottives who should act in the manner in which the House of Commons does in this country, in the legislature of the country—a thing different as light and darkness, from an equal share in the government of the society which he is a member—and yet you will hot, throughout the resolutions of these perso that constantly the right of active citizenship, the right of universal representation, is appl? to the whole government, and is not confined, a any one instance (at least I have not f one) to such a body as the House of Commons is in this country. This right to an ¢q share in the government, is the necessil] consequence and result of that pe He upon which they assert the right of equal scuve citizenship ; and it cannot be questioned, thst the moment you assume that every ms2 FI a right to an equal share in the government which he is a member, the moment you take that as a principle, all the rest must sarily follow. iat, bit 
THOMAS_HARDY 11834 The next assertion of these societies 5the exercise of that right of equal active tizenship in appointing an adequate repre 
THOMAS_HARDY 11835  tative government, is essential to the security of that very right of equal active citizenship. So it unquestionably is; because in no manner but by the election of all those with whom power is entrusted, can every individual enjoy the right of equal active citizenship. But if there are to be peers, and aking in the conn there cannot be equal active citizenship. If the king and peers are to have a distinction, however small it may be, they cannot be equal active citizens with the rest. You must perceive, therefore, that the moment it is established as a principle, that there is a right in every individual to an equal share in the wernment of the society to which he belongs, monarchy falls to the ground, because itis utterly inconsistent with that peinciple ; and you will recollect, that in the books which have been produced to you, this is laid down asa very clear consequence from the principle; and it is asserted, that there was a manifest contradiction in the French constitution of 1791, because, having established the pricciple, it still retained a king in its form of government. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11836 There was another objection I recollect, to this French constitution, resulting from the same principles. That all persons ought to be deemed equally qualified to vote for the election of a representative body, however small their property ; so that every individual ought to have an equal right ofvoting. Having established, therefore, the right of every individual to an equal share in the government of the society of which he is a member, and the exercise of that right in appointing an adequate representative government, they necessarily claim, as one of the rights of man, in the third place,“ The right of universal suffrage and annual parliaments ;? — And this, not itheas a wise regulation, but as necessarily included in the constitution of a representative Prraurent formed on their fae — tis stated by Mr. Paine and Mr. Barlow, that a government in which those rights are withheld, is an usurpation of the rights of man; and so it necessarily is, if these authors are right in their first principles
THOMAS_HARDY 11838 Now, gentlemen, it is proved that persons holding these principles, had formed a design for assembling a convention or meeting, which should assume the character of a convention of the people; that in the prosecution of this design, they did various acts; and particularly, that the prisoner at the bar did various acts—writing letters, being present at meetings and a variety of other acts, all tending to the completion of this purpose. A case so proved, must necessarily -amount fo high treason, because it is impossible that the conception should have been formed for assembling a convention under such circumstances, without those who formed it conceiving in their minds a wish and purpose to destroy the existing government, and to establish in its place a government founded on principles totally opposite to those on which the existing government is founded. —When such persons assemble for the purpose of effecting a reformation in the government of the country, it is fairly to be presumed, in the first iustance, that they do it for the pur of carrying into effect those principles Phich hey fave so laid dowa; and if they attempt this by means of a meeting which is to assume the character of a convention of the by the very act of assembling a meeting which is to assume that character, they declare completely, that such is their intention, because the convention, if truly a convention of the people, cannot be assembled without the possession of abbas power. It certainly is not necessary that the purse which is imputed to the prisoner in this indictment, should be proved to its full extent, in order to F ee finding him guilty. But I apprehend that it has been 90 proved. A much less case seems to me to bring the isoner withia the penalties of high treason. Fr hes been shown, at least, that those per sens who were concerned with him, had formed a design to procure some alteration in the constitution of the sovereign power of the state, and that they lad taken some steps for that purpose. —If they formed a design of procuring any alteration, otherwise than by acts of the constituted legislature, of the King, Lords, and Commons, in parliament assembled, and acting in perfect freedom ; for if they do not act in pereect freedom, they ate not the constituted legislature ef the country—it is ridiculous to ‘call them 0, if they are put under restraint—if a man is put restraint, any act which he does is void —if he is compelled to do it, it is not his act and so with respect to abe legislature; if they are not free agents, they are not the comstituted legislature—they are not that thing which was intended by the framers of the constitution of the couatry to be that body which should make laws to bind the rest of the people
THOMAS_HARDY 11840 In the case of lord Cobham, it was not the view of the persons who were conceme, that the acts which they proposed to &, should, for any continuance, deprive the kn of his royal authority; but they conceive that, within e certain time (according to m Tecollection of the circumstances, witkz about a month) they should be able to efx. tuate their pi 3 and that they shou have brought about all they meant to bart done, in the mean time, in the king’s num And yet there was ne doubt that that ona deposition of the king, if it bad beefected only for the short time during wha they meant to effect it, would have bea z commpletely high treason as if they hadtended to depose him for ever. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11841 Admitting that the persons whe were om cerned in this business, intended to bre made a change in the goverament of ts country, the idea of electing the change ly means of the existing legislature (if yoo attend at all to what the evidence has bees! seems quite out of the question. They hin Hleclares: ir notwithstanding the colour the has been attempted e be given to it, I that they have most explicitly declared—th they would not es parliament. They hawe clearly declared that they conceived: petition to parliament would have no srt effect; an address to the king they dederd to be futile: they were to resort to mene! fectual means; and those effectual max they declared to be the energy of ther ow power
THOMAS_HARDY 11843 assembling s general meeting, that they should have thought it proper to have given that nieeting a different. denomination than that which had been assumed by other meetings of the same nature 
THOMAS_HARDY 11844 ‘In what manner did the delegates, assembled (as proved by the prisoner) to take into consideration the election of Scotch members of parliament, proceed 
THOMAS_HARDY 11846 ’ possession of power, that they would part with Itwithout a stru, expected relief from their own laws, and not from the laws of their eneinies, their plun other sort of meaning to be attributed to those wn: their own power. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11847 id particular stress upon some words made use of in one of the resolutions for the purpose of assembling those meetings, from which he intimated that their object was only to collect the opinions of the people upon the subject, or to take means to consider what were the proper measures for the purpose
THOMAS_HARDY 11849 But, suppose they had not had it in their view to have acted immediately themselves as aconstituting assembly, though assuming the character of a convention of the people, which I think I shall show you they clearly Meant to do, as the British Convention expressly did—I cannot understand why they Were not to act—did they propose to meet. with a view to suggest. se idea of calling any other meeting upon tH subject, or to do anyfarther act
THOMAS_HARDY 11851 Gentlemen, when you consider what has passed in France, you must be perfectly aware of the effects of a national constituted assembly. When the states general of France were called together by the king, before half of them were assembled, such of them, who were principally of the third order, as were assembled, declared themselves to be a national assembly ; that is, an assembly of the people; and they immediately declared that according to that principle, namely, that they were an assembly of the people, the king could put no negative upon their proceedings. That was one of the first measures of that assembly; and the moment they had done so, it’ is evident to every person who has looked at all into the history of that country, that the king of France was, in effect, deposed from that very moment (I think the 7th of June, 1789) by less than a mvuiety of the whole assembly intended to be convened, meeting together, and assuming the character of a convention of the people; declaring themselves a national assembly, and that the ing could put no negative upon their proceedings, and that they would not separate till they had effected their purpose. They immediately took upon them to act as the sovereign power of the country; they took upon them to declare that all the existing taxes were illegal; that those taxes should be received for a time, but should onty be received so long as that assembly should sit, From that moment, therefore, in effect the king of France was deposed; a constitution was afterwards formed, and to that constitution he gave his assent in 1791. He was then again upon the throne; but upon which throne he was not king in the character which he had before, but he was king by a perfectly new title, and in a perfectly new character. Such is the necessary course, and such the necessary consequence of a national constituted assembly. If you look to what has passed in your own country, and to that which is so continually referred to in the course of these proceedings, namely, the Revolution in 1688, you will find, to a certain extent, the same thing done; for what was that assembly which pe the prince and princess of Orange on the throne
THOMAS_HARDY 11853 Gentlemen, the moment, therefore, as I conceive, that there is an-assembly assuming to itself the character of a convention of the people, and able to sustain itself against the government of the country, there is an insurFection against that government, and all those consequences follow which are so fully detailed in that speech of Barrere, which was read to you—the king is immediately deposed, and deprived of his inviolability, so far asa convention has power to act. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11854 Now, gentlemen, if a meeting which could assume the title of aconvention of the people, could lawfully assemble themselves, what must be the consequence? If the meeting is really a convention of the people, and it be lawful for them to assemble, the king must be bound 
THOMAS_HARDY 11855 ‘to obcy; he is no longer sovereign, or the head of the sovereign power ; the parliament must also be bound: to obey this convention. Being in its nature the sovereign power of the state, resistance to its authority must be resistance to the sovereign power of the state; for the moment the meeting assembled, it must be the sovereign power, and the king, in the very act of resisting the authority of such an assembly, if it could afterwards sustain itself, must be guilty himself of what might be deemed treason against the sovereign power of the state; he would be resisting the power which he ought to obey, and the assembly would have a pretence for putting him to death; the very same pretence as in ie case of king Charles 1st. If, therefore, it appears to you that these persons had formed a conspiracy to assemble a number of persons who should assume, when assembled, the character of a convention of the pedple, a that they had taken steps for that purpose; that alone would constitute the crime of high treason. Gentlemen, the conspiracy which has ber alleged is of a very wide and extensive petur: a eireumstance which has occasioned a consderable degree of complaint on the part of m learned friends, as it has produced very tensive evidence. The persons concerae! have been actingat different times in differen: places, and sometimes, perhaps, by difiert! means, but allof them havingin view, as ce ceive (when I say all, I mean the leaders), grand plan, the accomplishment of which m the object of all. This has occasioned th distribution of the evidence into those tm parts noticed by Mr. Gibbs, which were po duced to establish, first, the existence of te general conspiracy; and secondly, the ja which the prisoner had in it. I conceive tat when you consider. the evidence taken als ther, you can have no sort of doubt of boti Gentlemen, let me take the evidencea Ix: by degrees ; and in so doing, as I see there w: be no end in taking it in detail, I shall nee sarily trust to your giving some creditto ar assertion, without referring to every partol evidence, expecting his lordship will sf wards sum it up more in detail to you. Fra the several publications and papers gveo 4 evidence, I think I may assume it to be pe fectly clear, that there were some persons this country—and I will instance Mr. Pane. and Mr. Barlow, who were desirous of efi«ing the general destruction of the British Lo stitution, and particularly of monarchy, a all hereditary honours ; and who were dsxed to promote, to the utmost of their por any measures for that purpose. T think, ges tlemen, you cannot have attended to the edence, without admitting that Ido notsssam too much, when I assume that it cannot bs fairly contended that such persons as Parse and Barlow were not, in effect, conspinior against the constitution of this cout’. Lhere were persons also in Franceho cot under the same description, and particulars (with great submission) I shall venture 0 clude in that description the French Nato Convention ; for they were clearly disposed establish that doctrine here, which ee established in their own country, but which is directly adverse to the British Constituls?: and they were desirous of doing it for be son, because they felt that their own salt! depended upon it. You will recollect re haps, a passage in Paine’s work, whi a was read; “ When France sball bearounded with revolutions, she Cot peace and safety. And the Society for Co. stitutional Information, and the Lo te responding Society, accordingly addres 198, National Convention in 2} overnber er (which, by-the-by, neither of the coun: the prisoner at the bar took any ip whatever, though they appeared ve tant papers, forthe purpose of showing the intention of these people); You will recollect that the London Corresponding Society, in particular, “ fervently supplicated the Almighty Ruler of the Universe to be favourable to the cause of the French, so intimately blended with their own. This you will recollect was not during the existence of the Constitution of 1791, but after the destruction of that constitution, and the total deposition of Louis 16th; and then they considered the cause of the French as intimately blended with their own. How could it be blended with their own, unless it was their object to establish in this country a government upon the same principles upon which the French had established their government, or were endeavouring to establish a government? They conceived “ that it was their duty to countenance and assist, to the utmost of their power, the champions of human happiness ; that they would therefure oppose, to the utmost of tlicir power, any thing hostile to them on the part of Great Britain; and they looked to the triple alliance of the people of America, France, and Britain to give freedom to the world. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11856 Gentlemen, the words which are made use of, are very strong; for it is not simply “ of the people, but they are—“ If you succeed, as we ardently wish, the triple alliance (not of crowns, but) of the people of America, France and Britain, will give peace to Europe, and freedom to the whole world. Therefore they did not simply make use of the word “ people, an expression that might comprehend the whole; but they expressly negatived crowns. There existed no crown in America —at that time none in France; the only country mentioned in this paper which had a crown was Great Britain. Therefore when they ardently wished a triple alliance, not of crowns, but of the people of America, France and Britain, to give peace to the whole world, what do they do but in terms, not to be controverted, declare, that it is their wish and intention —that is, that they had formed a conspiracy, for I do not know what a conspiracy is, but forming a wish and intention to do a thing—that they had formed a wish and intention of establishing a government in this country without acrown? I can give it no Other interpretation. In another part of their address they say—secking our real enemies, we find them in our bosoms. We feel ourselves inwardly torn by, and ever the victims of, a restless and all consuming aristucracy, hitherto the bane of every nation under the sun. Wisely have you acted in expelling it from 
THOMAS_HARDY 11857 France, Why, gentlemen, what do they mean by “ aristocracy here? Whatcan they possibly mean but to refer to that part of the constitution in the government of this country which may be deemed aristocratical 
THOMAS_HARDY 11859 For the King and House of Lords, still remaining parts of the legislature, and being hereditary, could not, by any possibility, come within that description which they meant to attribute to the French Convention
THOMAS_HARDY 11861 Gentlemen, I have nothing to do with the propriety or impropriety of the conduct of those who were concerned in the transactions ofthe 10th of August. It would be wrong for me to blame one side or the other. But to which ever side blame was imputable, v-hat was the event? ‘The event was the destruction of monarchy. ‘That is here called a glorious Victory ; it is said to have finally prepared the way for a constitution, which the society trusted would be established on the basis of Teason and nature; it had brought them to that situation which enabled them to arrive, finally, at that point of. perfection, expressed in the former part of the address. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11862 Now, gentlemen, to say that any persons who could give their assent to that Address knowing what they were about, or attending to it, entertained a sincere attachment to any of the principles upon which the British constitution is founded, is asserting that which it secins to me, that no rational man can possibly ive credit to. I cannot help here observing, by the way, upon the words,— Finally prepared the way for a constitution, which, we trust, you will establish on the basis of reason and nature. gentlemen, you will recollect there were two passages; onc in Mr. Paine’s work, the other in Juel Barlow’s, before this glorious victory of the 10th of August, which expressly stated, that they looked to that event; to the destruction of the constitution which had been formed in 1791, for this reason; because it was formed in contradiction to the Principles of the Rights of Man, in the parts of it which consisted of a monarch, or any thing in the nature of distinctions of privileged orders. ‘That so far as it had any sort of distinction whatever, and was not compietely founded upon the right of equal active citizenship, it was a compound of contradictions, as, I think, Paine calls it in his publication, the Rights of Man, and therefore in its nature it could not subsist. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11863 In another passage of the same address, speaking of the cause of the i'rench, they say, “It is, indeed, a sacred cause. We ehcrish it, as the pledge of your happiness, our natural and nearest friends "—Then they say, that they speak, as they conceive, the real opinion of a great majority of the Euglish nation; and, finally, they conclude with the wonderful splendor of the French revolution, bursting forth upon the nations, in the full fervor of the meridian sun, and displaying in the midst of the European world, the prace tical result of principles, which philosophy had sought in the shade of speculation, and which experience must every where contimm. It dispels the clouds of prejudice from all people, reveals the secrets of all despotism, and creates a new character in man. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11864 Now cana more clear comment be read, upon the words of Paine and Barlow, than the words contained in the passage which have just read? Do they not clearly show you, that those societies are here stating s combination of principles with practice, in the same manner as Paine has done, the second par. of his works? That they are endeavouring io remove that prejucice from the people, which Mr. Paine conceires supported monarchy and aristocracy in ths country? It is said, by Paine and Barlos, that the first assembly, which ended in th year 1791, had been obliged, through te prejudices of the people, to form that constution in the manner in which they bad formed it, retaining a king, because the prejudices of the peopie would not at that time, permit them to form a government, without aking. It was too much, at that time, to form a government without a king; but the principles upon which they formed their g vernment, necessarily led to the destruction of that portion of monarchy which they had left
THOMAS_HARDY 11866 Gentlemen, I may add to this a remark, by the way, that it is a little extraordinary, cou sidering how much the Constitutional Society has been involved in this case, and how im portant it would have been for the prisoner, at the bar, to have brought some members o! that society to have explained this transactioa, —all the transactions, indeed, of that societ’, and particularly this Address ; that not one member of the Constitutional Society 5 brought as a witness on this trial, except that poor dancing master, who is a member o both societies, and who seemed incapatleunderstanding any thing that passed. ith same thing occurs, to a great degree, ! respect to the London Corresponding SoatlyNotone witness whom they have brous, was a person capable, from the descnpvo he gave of himself, of accounting, 19 any manner whatever, for the Address of he London Corresponding Society. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11867 Gentlemen, you remember the manner in which these two Addresses were passed in these societies. The letter which was sent by Hardy, first, and the debate that passed between them, whether there should be a joint, or a separate address? This was not a thing taken up in a hurry, but a thing considered, and much debated upon; one in one form, and the other in another. If any evidence, upon this subject, could possibly have been given, which could have been advantageous to the prisoner at the bar, it, would certainly have been produced. In truth, both these addresses hold out, in pretty strong terms, a wish for an alliance and friendship with another country; that country certainly was not, at the time when these addresses were presented, in any adverse situation to this; but still, with respect to-this country, in such a situation as made it a matter deserving some degree of Caution, at least, or such as one should imagine would induce persons, thinking of presenting such addresses, to reflect a little upon it, befure they did it. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11868 How are these addresses received? One of the persons who were sent over with that of the Constitutional Society (how the London Sesfeponding Society's Address got over, we have not been able to show) was Mr. Joel Barlow, the gentleman who had written the “ Advice to the Privileged Orders,: in which he has completely stated what his ideas were, upon the subject of government, who: had reeently written an Address to the French Convention, with respect to the defects in their constitution of 1791, pointing -out a principal defect in that constitution to be the existence of a king and several other things, which, he conceived, ought to be removed, to render the government more complete, upon the principles of the Rights of Man. The other person was Mr. Frost, who, I shall likewise observe to you, is not called as a witness, on behalf of the prisoner. He was a person who had made himself a little obnoxious, and who afterwards became the object of a prosecution. When this address was presented to the National Assembly, in France, the president of the French Assemb! perfectly understood the matter. You will recollect, that there was likewise an address pronounced by the gentlemen who presented this address. Mr. Barlow and Mr. Frost were admitted to the bar, and thus addressed the Assembly : “ Citizens of France, We are deputed from the Society for Constitutional Information, in London, to present to you their congratulations on the triumphs of Liberty
THOMAS_HARDY 11870 What is the answer of the president of the National Assembly? He has no sort of doubt of the intention and meaning of those persons; for he immediately calls them, “ Generous Republicans. He could not have a conception of -their principles, otherwise than as republican principles. When men addressed them in that style, they could not have an idea, that they were friends to the House of Commons, to the old peers, or to the new ones. The answerof the French presidentis : — Generous Republicans, your appearance in this place will form an epoch in the history of mankind. History will consecrate the day, when, from a nation, long regarded as a rival, and in the name ofa great number of your fellow citizens, you appeared in the midst of the representatives of the people of France. There is another passage, which, indeed, is a previous passage, which 1 particularly meant to have read: he shades of Pym, of Hampden, and of Sidney, are hovering over your heads, and the moment cannot be distant when the people of France will offer their conratulations to a National Convention in England. Why, gentlemen, the president of the French National Convention seems not to have the slightest doubt of the meaning of the address. He had nota conception, but that the persons who sentit, were disposed to establish, and desirous of establishing, in our country, a republican government ; and that they had actually taken the means for that purpose. He says, that the moment could not be fur distant when the people of France would offer their congratulations to a national convention in England. Is it possible to explain these transactions in any other sense than that which I have submitted to you? If it be, why has not some person or other appeared, as a witness, to have given what he conceives to be the true sense and meaning of the society, as you will recollect that a great deal of evidence has been introduced into this cause, for the purpose of giving constructions of the same sort? That makes it a very strong casc; for when persons are called to give constructions to words of one description, and there are none called to give a construction to words of another description, or to words used in one case, and not to words used in another, it must, at least, be taken, that, in that instance in which they do not attempt to give, by other means, a construction to words, the words are open to that construction which the words themselves fairly import. These words can import nothing else than a declaration of a complete design formed, of establishing, in this country, a republican government; of bringing about a national conventiun ; to which national convention, as an assembly, having in itself the executive and legislative powet of the government, the national assemly of France might send these congratulations. 
THOMAS_HARDY 11871 Gentlemen, it shows also, that the Convention, by their decrees of the 19th of November, and of the 15th of December, 1792, had adapted that sort of defence, which had been suggested to them,—“ the giving liberty to Europe,—as a mode of defence of their own narhe of the French nation, that they would afford military assistance to all people who wished to recover their liberty, within which description they most certainly had considered the British nation; because tne London Corresponding Society, and the Society for Constitutional Information, had expressly asserted that the British nation were slaves. The French had, by these decrees, declared that they would not permit a reformation in the House of Commons, if it was in their power to prevent it; they had, in effect, declared, they would compel the people of this country, at the request of the London Corresponding So ciety, and the Society for Constitutional Information, to accept a government, formed upon the principles of the sovereignty of the people; and that, if the people of this country should refuse to accept of Liberty and Equality, being desirous to preserve their prince, and their privileged casts, that they would treat them as enemies. 
THOMAS_HARDY 12562 My fellow countrymen I return you my thanks. 
