WOOD 588 Alexander Grant said he believed it to be the prisoner's hand-writing. 
WOOD 589 “A parliamentary reform is that which of allother things, in our opinion, deserves the attention of the public. We are more and mure convinced, by every day’s experience, that the restoring the right of voting universally to every man, not incapacitat by nature, for want of reason, or by law for commission of crimes (together with anDual elections) is the only reform that can be effectual and permanent. As Providence has kindly furnished men in every station with faculties necessary for judging of what con-y cerns themselves, it is somewhat strange that the multitude should suffer a few, with no better intellects than their own, to vsuxr the iaportant power of governing them without control, i t has has been a long and very just complaint, that a very great majority of the people of this country are not represented in pariament; that the majority of the representatives of the whole nation are chosen b number of voters not exceeding twetve t sand, Many large and populous towns have not a single vote for a representative, such as Birmingham, containing about 40,000 inhabitants, Manchester above 30,000, Leeds above 20,000, besides Sheffield, Bradford, Wolverhampton, Halifax, &c. &c. ‘ 
WOOD 590 “Let us look at the metropolis, andseewhat a great majority of the inhabitants have not a single vote. Those facts are solid evidences, therefore need no comment. The views and intentions of this society are to col-’ lect the opinion and know the determination (as far as possible) of the aacirepresente of the people, They certainly are the persons most aggrieved, and have the greatest right to come forward like men, and say—Give us our Ricats ; and, if they arc united and firm, where or who are they that dare oppose them in their determinations? : ¢ From these considerations we have come to the following RESOLUTIONS : 
WOOD 591 “4, That a society be instituted under the title of the Corresponding Society, for restoring the right of the unrepresented people of Great Britain. 
WOOD 592 “g, That each member shall pay at least one penny per week ‘towards the expense of the society. 
WOOD 593 “ 3, That as soon as twenty members shail be associated, a general meeting shall be called, at which the laws and regulations necessary for the overnment of the society shall be esta lished, and such officers appoint-' ed as may be thought necessary
WOOD 595 “4, That a committee be appointed ‘to correspond with any and every society that may be formed in Great Britain, with a view of promoting the objects of this society. 
WOOD 596 “5, That no person shall be proposed to be a member of this society (after the first general. meeting) unless he be recommendcd by one member, and the proposal seconded by another
WOOD 598 “ 6. That-each member’s name and place of abode be entered regularly ina book kept fur that purpose. 
WOOD 599 7, That all proceedings of the society and’ its committee be fairly transcribed into . pros. 
WOOD 600 er books for that purpose, by the secretary, rom the rough minutes, against the next meeting of the society and committee. 
WOOD 601 4g, That no one be admitted a member under the age of twenty-one years, nor any who has not resided in Great Britain for one ear. 
WOOD 626 Alexander Grant said he believed it to be the prisoner's hand-writing. 
WOOD 627 Indorsed “ Copy of a letter to Mr. Favell, chairman of the Borough Society, August 23, 1799. 
WOOD 628 “Mr. Favell, chairman to the Borough Society of the Friends pf the People. 
WOOD 629 “ Sir, The London Corresponding Society herewith transmits to the Society of the Friends of the People, 50 copies of an address to the inhabitants of Great Britain on the subject of a parliamentary reform. 
WOOD 630 “We were in hopes that, as both our societies protcss to have the same object in view, the delegates of the Friends of the People would, by visiting our committee, as agreed upon in our Jast visit to them, have kept up an advantageous intercourse of the two societies, and strengthened the common cause by a closer union, and freer communication of our mutual endeavours. We are, however, inclined to hope their absence has not proceeded from any relaxation of zeal towards the public good, nor of diminution of friendship towards a society in whose name we have the pleasure of subcribing ourselves, dear sir, your sincere friends aud well-wisher, 
WOOD 631 M. Marcaror, chairman. . Hanpy, secretary. “No. 9. Piccadilly, August 23, 1792. 
WOOD 632 xshcwn another paper, said he believed it to be the hand-writing of the prisoner, 23d August, 1792. 
WOOD 633 Copy of a letter to Major Cartwright, chair. man of the London Constitutional Society August 23, 1792. 
WOOD 634 “ Major Cartwright, Chairman of the Lendon Constitutional Society, a 
WOOD 635 “ Sic, In-hopes that our zeal for the ad-! ment of their own commonwealth, and in vancement of the cause of freedom will, with the public, in some measure counter-balance the want of merit in the inclosed production, the London Corresponding Suciety takes the liberty of transmitting to the Society for Constitutional Information a few copies of an address to the jnhabitants of Great Britain on the subject of a parliamentary retorm. 
WOOD 636 “ Tfitis found to contain nothing repugnant to sound reason or justice, if it may any ways tend to accelerate a radical reform, and ifit is so fortunate as to meet the approbation of the Loadon Constitutional Society, our honest, though feeble, endeavours, we shall deem amply rewarded. 
WOOD 637 “With great respect and esteem, we have the honow to be, for the Committee of the London Corresponding Society, sir, your very humble servanjs, 
WOOD 638 “ M. Manearot, chairman, “ T. Harpy, secretary, 
WOOD 639 “No. 9, Piccadilly, Thursday 23d Aug. 1792. 
WOOD 640 Indorsed “ Copy of a letter to major Cartwright, chairman of the London Constitutional Society. 
WOOD 1037 Look at the indorsement on this letter. Do you believe that to-be the prisoner’s hand-writing 
WOOD 1039 ‘ “ Edinburgh, Oct. 5th, 1793. 
WOOD 1040 “ Brother Hardy; The letter and this paper will explain themselves. I was at a meeting on the day this mentions, and the determination of the association are universal suffrages and annual parliaments, and it was tbe unanimous desire and wish of that meeting, that two persons, if possible, should be sent from our society in England, as delegates, to meet our dear northern frends in the ensuing convention. I must earnestly desire the said wish of our friends here may be complied with, as it will add to the dignity of our association in particular, and to the convention in general, and will further the common cause much, ina way the Judgment of our association must hit upon, without any explanation of mine. If any person could be elected of sound principles, a clear understanding speaker, with a long head and a good warm heart in ‘the cause of freedom, having it in view, and not his own aggrandizement, such a delegate would be of great service. If sucky a one is chosen, he must be here by the twenty-ninth day of this month, as the convention meets on that day; and if my poor feeble efforts will be of any service to the convention as the other delegate, the London Corresponding Society may command me for the support of their interests as far as lam capable; but those of you who know me, know I am no speaker, much less an orator, but this I will say, my heart lies in the right pare and hates and abhors all despots, lease to communicate this to our friends, and let me know the society’s determination, if they will honour me with their confidence. I am often with our friend Muir; he bears his confinement with a fortitude of soul, inspired with the genius of liberty; he is well. I have much to say, but I must leave off. This letter will be delivered by my servant, which must have a speedy answer, because of. the approaching meeting here. Every thing. of moment I will communicate to you from time to time; and wishing destruction to all human butchers, and success to all friends of liberty, I remain, brother Hardy, yours to command, A. CaLenpeR. 
WOOD 1041 “ My servant will show you my direction. 
WOOD 1042 Where did you find this paper
WOOD 1044 Alexander Grant said he believed it to be the prisoner’s hand-writing. 
WOOD 1045 “ London, 25th Oct. 1798. 
WOOD 1046 Dear Sir, According to promise, I have’ this day to acquaint you, that we had yester day a general meeting of the London Corresponding Society, for the : Parra of takin; into consideration your kind invitation to sen two delegates to the convention which is to be held in Edinburgh. The society have for that purpose made choice of Maurice Mar, rot and Joseph Gerrald, who will both be with you shortly, and will deliver into your convention their vouchers of delegation. For the recital of the curious incidents attendant on our general meeting, I refer you to the dele gates themselves. I am, most sincerely, your respectful friend and well-wisher, homas Harpy, “No. 9, Piccadilly, Mr. Wn. Skirving, head of the 
WOOD 1047 “ Horse Wynde, Edinburgh. 
WOOD 1048 Where was this paper found
WOOD 1060 And opened in the presence of 
WOOD 1061 Skirving 
WOOD 1081 Were these papers found in the same manner 
WOOD 1083 Alexander Grant said he believed this to be the prisoner's signature. 
WOOD 1084 “ At a general mecting of the London Corres, onding Society, held at citizen Briel. fat’s, Hackney-road, 24th Oct. 1793. 
WOOD 1085 his is to certify, that Maurice Margarot was this day duly elected a delegate to represent this society at the ensuing convention to be held at Edinburgh, for the purpose of ob taining a thorough reform in the parliamentary representation of Great Britain. 
WOOD 1086 “ Ricuarp Honcson, chairman, “ Thomas Harpy, secretary, , 
WOOD 1087 “Certificate to Citizen Margarot, Londoh Corresponding Society. “Mr. Wm. Skirving. “ Certificate of citizen Margarot. ‘ 
WOOD 1088 “ Ata general meeting of the London Corresponding Society, held at Citizen Briellat’s, Hackney-road, 24th Oct. 1793. 
WOOD 1089 his is to certify, that Joseph Gerrald was this day duly elected a delegate to repre sent this society at the ensuing convention to be held in Edinburgh, for the purpose of obtaining a thorough reform in the parliamene tary representation of Great Britain. Riciarp Hopeson, chairman, homas Harpy, secretary. 
WOOD 1090  , 
WOOD 1091  Citizen Gerrald’s commission, London Corresponding Society. Signed Thomas Hardy. 
WOOD 1092 “ Mr. Wm. Skirving. “ Certificate of Citizen Gerrald. 
WOOD 4132 j 
WOOD 4133 Were you a member of the London Corresponding Society 
WOOD 4135 How long is it since you first became a member 
WOOD 4137 Did you meet at Robinson’s Coffee-house, Shire-lane 
WOOD 4139 How many might your division consist of
WOOD 4141 Did you know Mr. Yorke
WOOD 4143 Was he a member of the Corresponding Society 
WOOD 4145 What number of people might there be assembled at that time 
WOOD 4147 Did Mr. Yorke tell you whether he was going to leave you, or not
WOOD 4149 Did he say for what purpose he was going there 
WOOD 4151 Ripe for what 
WOOD 4153 Did he say whether he meant to return into England again 
WOOD 4155 What more did he say 
WOOD 4157 ne of the Jury—Where was he to come to
WOOD 4159 You say he made a long speech upon his taking leave 
WOOD 4161 What did he say to you in that speech—the substance of it
WOOD 4163 Convention in France; and that he was in hopes he should have the pleasure of coming here either by Christmas, or the beginning of the year, at the head of them; aa that he should see them all ready to join him; and that he was in hopes that Mr. Pitt, with the different ministers he mentioned, and the king’s head, would be upon Temple-bar. 
WOOD 4171 Did he say any thing to you about the king and queen of France 
WOOD 4173 But the substance of it 
WOOD 4175 Did he say any thing about war 
WOOD 4177 Did he say any thing abcut the Sans Culottes 
WOOD 4179 Do not you recollect what he said besides 
WOOD 4181 Did he say any thing to you about arms
WOOD 4183 What did he say about arms
WOOD 4187 What did he say about bloodshed 
WOOD 4189 Did he say any thing to you about Sheffield, or the people at Shefficld
WOOD 4191 Did he tell you in what they were brave
WOOD 4193 ‘What more did he he say about the Sheffield men
WOOD 4195 Where was the blood to be shed 
WOOD 4197 Did he say any thing about bread and cheese, do you recollect
WOOD 4199 Was it the same night 
WOOD 4201 How was Mr. Yorke’s speech received among you
WOOD 4205 Do you knew where he went
WOOD 4207 Did you continue in the society after that night, or leave it 
WOOD 4209 Have you seen any other bills like that showing one to the witness] 
WOOD 4211 Did you see that before 
WOOD 4213 Why did you go to my lord mayor 
WOOD 4215 What had you apprehended them to be at the first
WOOD 4217 Where is it
WOOD 4219 How long was it before that
